The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Secret Adversary, by Agatha Christie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use
it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Secret Adversary

Author: Agatha Christie

Release Date: September 14, 2008 [EBook #1155]
Last Updated: November 3, 2016

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SECRET ADVERSARY ***



Produced by Charles Keller, and David Widger



THE SECRET ADVERSARY

By Agatha Christie



                   TO ALL THOSE WHO LEAD
                   MONOTONOUS LIVES
                   IN THE HOPE THAT THEY MAY EXPERIENCE
                   AT SECOND HAND
                   THE DELIGHTS AND DANGERS OF
                   ADVENTURE



CONTENTS


PROLOGUE

CHAPTER I.   THE YOUNG ADVENTURERS, LTD.

CHAPTER II.   MR. WHITTINGTON’S OFFER

CHAPTER III.   A SET BACK

CHAPTER IV.   WHO IS JANE FINN?

CHAPTER V.   MR. JULIUS P. HERSHEIMMER

CHAPTER VI.   A PLAN OF CAMPAIGN

CHAPTER VII.   THE HOUSE IN SOHO

CHAPTER VIII.   THE ADVENTURES OF TOMMY

CHAPTER IX.   TUPPENCE ENTERS DOMESTIC SERVICE

CHAPTER X.   ENTER SIR JAMES PEEL EDGERTON

CHAPTER XI.   JULIUS TELLS A STORY

CHAPTER XII.   A FRIEND IN NEED

CHAPTER XIII.   THE VIGIL

CHAPTER XIV.   A CONSULTATION

CHAPTER XV.   TUPPENCE RECEIVES A PROPOSAL

CHAPTER XVI.   FURTHER ADVENTURES OF TOMMY

CHAPTER XVII.   ANNETTE

CHAPTER XVIII.   THE TELEGRAM

CHAPTER XIX.   JANE FINN

CHAPTER XX.   TOO LATE

CHAPTER XXI.   TOMMY MAKES A DISCOVERY

CHAPTER XXII.   IN DOWNING STREET

CHAPTER XXIII.   A RACE AGAINST TIME

CHAPTER XXIV.   JULIUS TAKES A HAND

CHAPTER XXV.   JANE’S STORY

CHAPTER XXVI.   MR. BROWN

CHAPTER XXVII.   A SUPPER PARTY AT THE _SAVOY_

CHAPTER XXVIII.     AND AFTER



PROLOGUE

IT was 2 p.m. on the afternoon of May 7, 1915. The _Lusitania_ had been
struck by two torpedoes in succession and was sinking rapidly, while
the boats were being launched with all possible speed. The women and
children were being lined up awaiting their turn. Some still clung
desperately to husbands and fathers; others clutched their children
closely to their breasts. One girl stood alone, slightly apart from
the rest. She was quite young, not more than eighteen. She did not seem
afraid, and her grave, steadfast eyes looked straight ahead.

“I beg your pardon.”

A man’s voice beside her made her start and turn. She had noticed the
speaker more than once amongst the first-class passengers. There had
been a hint of mystery about him which had appealed to her imagination.
He spoke to no one. If anyone spoke to him he was quick to rebuff the
overture. Also he had a nervous way of looking over his shoulder with a
swift, suspicious glance.

She noticed now that he was greatly agitated. There were beads of
perspiration on his brow. He was evidently in a state of overmastering
fear. And yet he did not strike her as the kind of man who would be
afraid to meet death!

“Yes?” Her grave eyes met his inquiringly.

He stood looking at her with a kind of desperate irresolution.

“It must be!” he muttered to himself. “Yes--it is the only way.” Then
aloud he said abruptly: “You are an American?”

“Yes.”

“A patriotic one?”

The girl flushed.

“I guess you’ve no right to ask such a thing! Of course I am!”

“Don’t be offended. You wouldn’t be if you knew how much there was at
stake. But I’ve got to trust some one--and it must be a woman.”

“Why?”

“Because of ‘women and children first.’” He looked round and lowered his
voice. “I’m carrying papers--vitally important papers. They may make all
the difference to the Allies in the war. You understand? These papers
have _got_ to be saved! They’ve more chance with you than with me. Will
you take them?”

The girl held out her hand.

“Wait--I must warn you. There may be a risk--if I’ve been followed. I
don’t think I have, but one never knows. If so, there will be danger.
Have you the nerve to go through with it?”

The girl smiled.

“I’ll go through with it all right. And I’m real proud to be chosen!
What am I to do with them afterwards?”

“Watch the newspapers! I’ll advertise in the personal column of the
_Times_, beginning ‘Shipmate.’ At the end of three days if there’s
nothing--well, you’ll know I’m down and out. Then take the packet to
the American Embassy, and deliver it into the Ambassador’s own hands. Is
that clear?”

“Quite clear.”

“Then be ready--I’m going to say good-bye.” He took her hand in his.
“Good-bye. Good luck to you,” he said in a louder tone.

Her hand closed on the oilskin packet that had lain in his palm.

The _Lusitania_ settled with a more decided list to starboard. In answer
to a quick command, the girl went forward to take her place in the boat.



CHAPTER I. THE YOUNG ADVENTURERS, LTD.

“TOMMY, old thing!”

“Tuppence, old bean!”

The two young people greeted each other affectionately, and momentarily
blocked the Dover Street Tube exit in doing so. The adjective “old”
 was misleading. Their united ages would certainly not have totalled
forty-five.

“Not seen you for simply centuries,” continued the young man. “Where are
you off to? Come and chew a bun with me. We’re getting a bit unpopular
here--blocking the gangway as it were. Let’s get out of it.”

The girl assenting, they started walking down Dover Street towards
Piccadilly.

“Now then,” said Tommy, “where shall we go?”

The very faint anxiety which underlay his tone did not escape the astute
ears of Miss Prudence Cowley, known to her intimate friends for some
mysterious reason as “Tuppence.” She pounced at once.

“Tommy, you’re stony!”

“Not a bit of it,” declared Tommy unconvincingly. “Rolling in cash.”

“You always were a shocking liar,” said Tuppence severely, “though you
did once persuade Sister Greenbank that the doctor had ordered you beer
as a tonic, but forgotten to write it on the chart. Do you remember?”

Tommy chuckled.

“I should think I did! Wasn’t the old cat in a rage when she found
out? Not that she was a bad sort really, old Mother Greenbank! Good old
hospital--demobbed like everything else, I suppose?”

Tuppence sighed.

“Yes. You too?”

Tommy nodded.

“Two months ago.”

“Gratuity?” hinted Tuppence.

“Spent.”

“Oh, Tommy!”

“No, old thing, not in riotous dissipation. No such luck! The cost of
living--ordinary plain, or garden living nowadays is, I assure you, if
you do not know----”

“My dear child,” interrupted Tuppence, “there is nothing I do _not_ know
about the cost of living. Here we are at Lyons’, and we will each of us
pay for our own. That’s it!” And Tuppence led the way upstairs.

The place was full, and they wandered about looking for a table,
catching odds and ends of conversation as they did so.

“And--do you know, she sat down and _cried_ when I told her she couldn’t
have the flat after all.” “It was simply a _bargain_, my dear! Just like
the one Mabel Lewis brought from Paris----”

“Funny scraps one does overhear,” murmured Tommy. “I passed two Johnnies
in the street to-day talking about some one called Jane Finn. Did you
ever hear such a name?”

But at that moment two elderly ladies rose and collected parcels, and
Tuppence deftly ensconced herself in one of the vacant seats.

Tommy ordered tea and buns. Tuppence ordered tea and buttered toast.

“And mind the tea comes in separate teapots,” she added severely.

Tommy sat down opposite her. His bared head revealed a shock
of exquisitely slicked-back red hair. His face was pleasantly
ugly--nondescript, yet unmistakably the face of a gentleman and a
sportsman. His brown suit was well cut, but perilously near the end of
its tether.

They were an essentially modern-looking couple as they sat there.
Tuppence had no claim to beauty, but there was character and charm in
the elfin lines of her little face, with its determined chin and large,
wide-apart grey eyes that looked mistily out from under straight, black
brows. She wore a small bright green toque over her black bobbed hair,
and her extremely short and rather shabby skirt revealed a pair of
uncommonly dainty ankles. Her appearance presented a valiant attempt at
smartness.

The tea came at last, and Tuppence, rousing herself from a fit of
meditation, poured it out.

“Now then,” said Tommy, taking a large bite of bun, “let’s get
up-to-date. Remember, I haven’t seen you since that time in hospital in
1916.”

“Very well.” Tuppence helped herself liberally to buttered toast.
“Abridged biography of Miss Prudence Cowley, fifth daughter of
Archdeacon Cowley of Little Missendell, Suffolk. Miss Cowley left the
delights (and drudgeries) of her home life early in the war and came up
to London, where she entered an officers’ hospital. First month: Washed
up six hundred and forty-eight plates every day. Second month: Promoted
to drying aforesaid plates. Third month: Promoted to peeling potatoes.
Fourth month: Promoted to cutting bread and butter. Fifth month:
Promoted one floor up to duties of wardmaid with mop and pail. Sixth
month: Promoted to waiting at table. Seventh month: Pleasing appearance
and nice manners so striking that am promoted to waiting on the Sisters!
Eighth month: Slight check in career. Sister Bond ate Sister Westhaven’s
egg! Grand row! Wardmaid clearly to blame! Inattention in such important
matters cannot be too highly censured. Mop and pail again! How are the
mighty fallen! Ninth month: Promoted to sweeping out wards, where I
found a friend of my childhood in Lieutenant Thomas Beresford (bow,
Tommy!), whom I had not seen for five long years. The meeting was
affecting! Tenth month: Reproved by matron for visiting the pictures in
company with one of the patients, namely: the aforementioned Lieutenant
Thomas Beresford. Eleventh and twelfth months: Parlourmaid duties
resumed with entire success. At the end of the year left hospital in a
blaze of glory. After that, the talented Miss Cowley drove successively
a trade delivery van, a motor-lorry and a general! The last was the
pleasantest. He was quite a young general!”

“What blighter was that?” inquired Tommy. “Perfectly sickening the way
those brass hats drove from the War Office to the _Savoy_, and from the
_Savoy_ to the War Office!”

“I’ve forgotten his name now,” confessed Tuppence. “To resume, that was
in a way the apex of my career. I next entered a Government office. We
had several very enjoyable tea parties. I had intended to become a
land girl, a postwoman, and a bus conductress by way of rounding off
my career--but the Armistice intervened! I clung to the office with the
true limpet touch for many long months, but, alas, I was combed out at
last. Since then I’ve been looking for a job. Now then--your turn.”

“There’s not so much promotion in mine,” said Tommy regretfully, “and a
great deal less variety. I went out to France again, as you know. Then
they sent me to Mesopotamia, and I got wounded for the second time,
and went into hospital out there. Then I got stuck in Egypt till the
Armistice happened, kicked my heels there some time longer, and, as I
told you, finally got demobbed. And, for ten long, weary months I’ve
been job hunting! There aren’t any jobs! And, if there were, they
wouldn’t give ‘em to me. What good am I? What do I know about business?
Nothing.”

Tuppence nodded gloomily.

“What about the colonies?” she suggested.

Tommy shook his head.

“I shouldn’t like the colonies--and I’m perfectly certain they wouldn’t
like me!”

“Rich relations?”

Again Tommy shook his head.

“Oh, Tommy, not even a great-aunt?”

“I’ve got an old uncle who’s more or less rolling, but he’s no good.”

“Why not?”

“Wanted to adopt me once. I refused.”

“I think I remember hearing about it,” said Tuppence slowly. “You
refused because of your mother----”

Tommy flushed.

“Yes, it would have been a bit rough on the mater. As you know, I was
all she had. Old boy hated her--wanted to get me away from her. Just a
bit of spite.”

“Your mother’s dead, isn’t she?” said Tuppence gently.

Tommy nodded.

Tuppence’s large grey eyes looked misty.

“You’re a good sort, Tommy. I always knew it.”

“Rot!” said Tommy hastily. “Well, that’s my position. I’m just about
desperate.”

“So am I! I’ve hung out as long as I could. I’ve touted round. I’ve
answered advertisements. I’ve tried every mortal blessed thing. I’ve
screwed and saved and pinched! But it’s no good. I shall have to go
home!”

“Don’t you want to?”

“Of course I don’t want to! What’s the good of being sentimental?
Father’s a dear--I’m awfully fond of him--but you’ve no idea how I worry
him! He has that delightful early Victorian view that short skirts and
smoking are immoral. You can imagine what a thorn in the flesh I am to
him! He just heaved a sigh of relief when the war took me off. You see,
there are seven of us at home. It’s awful! All housework and mothers’
meetings! I have always been the changeling. I don’t want to go back,
but--oh, Tommy, what else is there to do?”

Tommy shook his head sadly. There was a silence, and then Tuppence burst
out:

“Money, money, money! I think about money morning, noon and night! I
dare say it’s mercenary of me, but there it is!”

“Same here,” agreed Tommy with feeling.

“I’ve thought over every imaginable way of getting it too,” continued
Tuppence. “There are only three! To be left it, to marry it, or to make
it. First is ruled out. I haven’t got any rich elderly relatives. Any
relatives I have are in homes for decayed gentlewomen! I always help old
ladies over crossings, and pick up parcels for old gentlemen, in case
they should turn out to be eccentric millionaires. But not one of them
has ever asked me my name--and quite a lot never said ‘Thank you.’”

There was a pause.

“Of course,” resumed Tuppence, “marriage is my best chance. I made up my
mind to marry money when I was quite young. Any thinking girl would!
I’m not sentimental, you know.” She paused. “Come now, you can’t say I’m
sentimental,” she added sharply.

“Certainly not,” agreed Tommy hastily. “No one would ever think of
sentiment in connection with you.”

“That’s not very polite,” replied Tuppence. “But I dare say you mean it
all right. Well, there it is! I’m ready and willing--but I never meet
any rich men! All the boys I know are about as hard up as I am.”

“What about the general?” inquired Tommy.

“I fancy he keeps a bicycle shop in time of peace,” explained Tuppence.
“No, there it is! Now _you_ could marry a rich girl.”

“I’m like you. I don’t know any.”

“That doesn’t matter. You can always get to know one. Now, if I see a
man in a fur coat come out of the _Ritz_ I can’t rush up to him and say:
‘Look here, you’re rich. I’d like to know you.’”

“Do you suggest that I should do that to a similarly garbed female?”

“Don’t be silly. You tread on her foot, or pick up her handkerchief, or
something like that. If she thinks you want to know her she’s flattered,
and will manage it for you somehow.”

“You overrate my manly charms,” murmured Tommy.

“On the other hand,” proceeded Tuppence, “my millionaire would probably
run for his life! No--marriage is fraught with difficulties. Remains--to
_make_ money!”

“We’ve tried that, and failed,” Tommy reminded her.

“We’ve tried all the orthodox ways, yes. But suppose we try the
unorthodox. Tommy, let’s be adventurers!”

“Certainly,” replied Tommy cheerfully. “How do we begin?”

“That’s the difficulty. If we could make ourselves known, people might
hire us to commit crimes for them.”

“Delightful,” commented Tommy. “Especially coming from a clergyman’s
daughter!”

“The moral guilt,” Tuppence pointed out, “would be theirs--not mine. You
must admit that there’s a difference between stealing a diamond necklace
for yourself and being hired to steal it.”

“There wouldn’t be the least difference if you were caught!”

“Perhaps not. But I shouldn’t be caught. I’m so clever.”

“Modesty always was your besetting sin,” remarked Tommy.

“Don’t rag. Look here, Tommy, shall we really? Shall we form a business
partnership?”

“Form a company for the stealing of diamond necklaces?”

“That was only an illustration. Let’s have a--what do you call it in
book-keeping?”

“Don’t know. Never did any.”

“I have--but I always got mixed up, and used to put credit entries on
the debit side, and vice versa--so they fired me out. Oh, I know--a
joint venture! It struck me as such a romantic phrase to come across in
the middle of musty old figures. It’s got an Elizabethan flavour about
it--makes one think of galleons and doubloons. A joint venture!”

“Trading under the name of the Young Adventurers, Ltd.? Is that your
idea, Tuppence?”

“It’s all very well to laugh, but I feel there might be something in
it.”

“How do you propose to get in touch with your would-be employers?”

“Advertisement,” replied Tuppence promptly. “Have you got a bit of paper
and a pencil? Men usually seem to have. Just like we have hairpins and
powder-puffs.”

Tommy handed over a rather shabby green notebook, and Tuppence began
writing busily.

“Shall we begin: ‘Young officer, twice wounded in the war----’”

“Certainly not.”

“Oh, very well, my dear boy. But I can assure you that that sort of
thing might touch the heart of an elderly spinster, and she might adopt
you, and then there would be no need for you to be a young adventurer at
all.”

“I don’t want to be adopted.”

“I forgot you had a prejudice against it. I was only ragging you!
The papers are full up to the brim with that type of thing. Now
listen--how’s this? ‘Two young adventurers for hire. Willing to do
anything, go anywhere. Pay must be good.’ (We might as well make
that clear from the start.) Then we might add: ‘No reasonable offer
refused’--like flats and furniture.”

“I should think any offer we get in answer to that would be a pretty
_un_reasonable one!”

“Tommy! You’re a genius! That’s ever so much more chic. ‘No unreasonable
offer refused--if pay is good.’ How’s that?”

“I shouldn’t mention pay again. It looks rather eager.”

“It couldn’t look as eager as I feel! But perhaps you are right. Now
I’ll read it straight through. ‘Two young adventurers for hire. Willing
to do anything, go anywhere. Pay must be good. No unreasonable offer
refused.’ How would that strike you if you read it?”

“It would strike me as either being a hoax, or else written by a
lunatic.”

“It’s not half so insane as a thing I read this morning beginning
‘Petunia’ and signed ‘Best Boy.’” She tore out the leaf and handed it
to Tommy. “There you are. _Times_, I think. Reply to Box so-and-so.
I expect it will be about five shillings. Here’s half a crown for my
share.”

Tommy was holding the paper thoughtfully. His faced burned a deeper red.

“Shall we really try it?” he said at last. “Shall we, Tuppence? Just for
the fun of the thing?”

“Tommy, you’re a sport! I knew you would be! Let’s drink to success.”
 She poured some cold dregs of tea into the two cups.

“Here’s to our joint venture, and may it prosper!”

“The Young Adventurers, Ltd.!” responded Tommy.

They put down the cups and laughed rather uncertainly. Tuppence rose.

“I must return to my palatial suite at the hostel.”

“Perhaps it is time I strolled round to the _Ritz_,” agreed Tommy with a
grin. “Where shall we meet? And when?”

“Twelve o’clock to-morrow. Piccadilly Tube station. Will that suit you?”

“My time is my own,” replied Mr. Beresford magnificently.

“So long, then.”

“Good-bye, old thing.”

The two young people went off in opposite directions. Tuppence’s hostel
was situated in what was charitably called Southern Belgravia. For
reasons of economy she did not take a bus.

She was half-way across St. James’s Park, when a man’s voice behind her
made her start.

“Excuse me,” it said. “But may I speak to you for a moment?”



CHAPTER II. MR. WHITTINGTON’S OFFER

TUPPENCE turned sharply, but the words hovering on the tip of her tongue
remained unspoken, for the man’s appearance and manner did not bear out
her first and most natural assumption. She hesitated. As if he read her
thoughts, the man said quickly:

“I can assure you I mean no disrespect.”

Tuppence believed him. Although she disliked and distrusted him
instinctively, she was inclined to acquit him of the particular motive
which she had at first attributed to him. She looked him up and down. He
was a big man, clean shaven, with a heavy jowl. His eyes were small and
cunning, and shifted their glance under her direct gaze.

“Well, what is it?” she asked.

The man smiled.

“I happened to overhear part of your conversation with the young
gentleman in Lyons’.”

“Well--what of it?”

“Nothing--except that I think I may be of some use to you.”

Another inference forced itself into Tuppence’s mind:

“You followed me here?”

“I took that liberty.”

“And in what way do you think you could be of use to me?”

The man took a card from his pocket and handed it to her with a bow.

Tuppence took it and scrutinized it carefully. It bore the inscription,
“Mr. Edward Whittington.” Below the name were the words “Esthonia
Glassware Co.,” and the address of a city office. Mr. Whittington spoke
again:

“If you will call upon me to-morrow morning at eleven o’clock, I will
lay the details of my proposition before you.”

“At eleven o’clock?” said Tuppence doubtfully.

“At eleven o’clock.”

Tuppence made up her mind.

“Very well. I’ll be there.”

“Thank you. Good evening.”

He raised his hat with a flourish, and walked away. Tuppence remained
for some minutes gazing after him. Then she gave a curious movement of
her shoulders, rather as a terrier shakes himself.

“The adventures have begun,” she murmured to herself. “What does he want
me to do, I wonder? There’s something about you, Mr. Whittington, that I
don’t like at all. But, on the other hand, I’m not the least bit afraid
of you. And as I’ve said before, and shall doubtless say again, little
Tuppence can look after herself, thank you!”

And with a short, sharp nod of her head she walked briskly onward. As a
result of further meditations, however, she turned aside from the direct
route and entered a post office. There she pondered for some moments,
a telegraph form in her hand. The thought of a possible five shillings
spent unnecessarily spurred her to action, and she decided to risk the
waste of ninepence.

Disdaining the spiky pen and thick, black treacle which a beneficent
Government had provided, Tuppence drew out Tommy’s pencil which she had
retained and wrote rapidly: “Don’t put in advertisement. Will explain
to-morrow.” She addressed it to Tommy at his club, from which in one
short month he would have to resign, unless a kindly fortune permitted
him to renew his subscription.

“It may catch him,” she murmured. “Anyway, it’s worth trying.”

After handing it over the counter she set out briskly for home, stopping
at a baker’s to buy three penny-worth of new buns.

Later, in her tiny cubicle at the top of the house she munched buns and
reflected on the future. What was the Esthonia Glassware Co., and what
earthly need could it have for her services? A pleasurable thrill of
excitement made Tuppence tingle. At any rate, the country vicarage had
retreated into the background again. The morrow held possibilities.

It was a long time before Tuppence went to sleep that night, and, when
at length she did, she dreamed that Mr. Whittington had set her to
washing up a pile of Esthonia Glassware, which bore an unaccountable
resemblance to hospital plates!

It wanted some five minutes to eleven when Tuppence reached the block
of buildings in which the offices of the Esthonia Glassware Co. were
situated. To arrive before the time would look over-eager. So Tuppence
decided to walk to the end of the street and back again. She did so. On
the stroke of eleven she plunged into the recesses of the building.
The Esthonia Glassware Co. was on the top floor. There was a lift, but
Tuppence chose to walk up.

Slightly out of breath, she came to a halt outside the ground glass door
with the legend painted across it “Esthonia Glassware Co.”

Tuppence knocked. In response to a voice from within, she turned the
handle and walked into a small rather dirty outer office.

A middle-aged clerk got down from a high stool at a desk near the window
and came towards her inquiringly.

“I have an appointment with Mr. Whittington,” said Tuppence.

“Will you come this way, please.” He crossed to a partition door with
“Private” on it, knocked, then opened the door and stood aside to let
her pass in.

Mr. Whittington was seated behind a large desk covered with papers.
Tuppence felt her previous judgment confirmed. There was something wrong
about Mr. Whittington. The combination of his sleek prosperity and his
shifty eye was not attractive.

He looked up and nodded.

“So you’ve turned up all right? That’s good. Sit down, will you?”

Tuppence sat down on the chair facing him. She looked particularly small
and demure this morning. She sat there meekly with downcast eyes whilst
Mr. Whittington sorted and rustled amongst his papers. Finally he pushed
them away, and leaned over the desk.

“Now, my dear young lady, let us come to business.” His large face
broadened into a smile. “You want work? Well, I have work to offer
you. What should you say now to £100 down, and all expenses paid?” Mr.
Whittington leaned back in his chair, and thrust his thumbs into the
arm-holes of his waistcoat.

Tuppence eyed him warily.

“And the nature of the work?” she demanded.

“Nominal--purely nominal. A pleasant trip, that is all.”

“Where to?”

Mr. Whittington smiled again.

“Paris.”

“Oh!” said Tuppence thoughtfully. To herself she said: “Of course,
if father heard that he would have a fit! But somehow I don’t see Mr.
Whittington in the role of the gay deceiver.”

“Yes,” continued Whittington. “What could be more delightful? To put the
clock back a few years--a very few, I am sure--and re-enter one of those
charming _pensionnats de jeunes filles_ with which Paris abounds----”

Tuppence interrupted him.

“A _pensionnat?_”

“Exactly. Madame Colombier’s in the Avenue de Neuilly.”

Tuppence knew the name well. Nothing could have been more select. She
had had several American friends there. She was more than ever puzzled.

“You want me to go to Madame Colombier’s? For how long?”

“That depends. Possibly three months.”

“And that is all? There are no other conditions?”

“None whatever. You would, of course, go in the character of my ward,
and you would hold no communication with your friends. I should have
to request absolute secrecy for the time being. By the way, you are
English, are you not?”

“Yes.”

“Yet you speak with a slight American accent?”

“My great pal in hospital was a little American girl. I dare say I
picked it up from her. I can soon get out of it again.”

“On the contrary, it might be simpler for you to pass as an American.
Details about your past life in England might be more difficult to
sustain. Yes, I think that would be decidedly better. Then----”

“One moment, Mr. Whittington! You seem to be taking my consent for
granted.”

Whittington looked surprised.

“Surely you are not thinking of refusing? I can assure you that Madame
Colombier’s is a most high-class and orthodox establishment. And the
terms are most liberal.”

“Exactly,” said Tuppence. “That’s just it. The terms are almost too
liberal, Mr. Whittington. I cannot see any way in which I can be worth
that amount of money to you.”

“No?” said Whittington softly. “Well, I will tell you. I could doubtless
obtain some one else for very much less. What I am willing to pay for
is a young lady with sufficient intelligence and presence of mind to
sustain her part well, and also one who will have sufficient discretion
not to ask too many questions.”

Tuppence smiled a little. She felt that Whittington had scored.

“There’s another thing. So far there has been no mention of Mr.
Beresford. Where does he come in?”

“Mr. Beresford?”

“My partner,” said Tuppence with dignity. “You saw us together
yesterday.”

“Ah, yes. But I’m afraid we shan’t require his services.”

“Then it’s off!” Tuppence rose. “It’s both or neither. Sorry--but that’s
how it is. Good morning, Mr. Whittington.”

“Wait a minute. Let us see if something can’t be managed. Sit down
again, Miss----” He paused interrogatively.

Tuppence’s conscience gave her a passing twinge as she remembered the
archdeacon. She seized hurriedly on the first name that came into her
head.

“Jane Finn,” she said hastily; and then paused open-mouthed at the
effect of those two simple words.

All the geniality had faded out of Whittington’s face. It was purple
with rage, and the veins stood out on the forehead. And behind it all
there lurked a sort of incredulous dismay. He leaned forward and hissed
savagely:

“So that’s your little game, is it?”

Tuppence, though utterly taken aback, nevertheless kept her head. She
had not the faintest comprehension of his meaning, but she was naturally
quick-witted, and felt it imperative to “keep her end up” as she phrased
it.

Whittington went on:

“Been playing with me, have you, all the time, like a cat and mouse?
Knew all the time what I wanted you for, but kept up the comedy. Is that
it, eh?” He was cooling down. The red colour was ebbing out of his face.
He eyed her keenly. “Who’s been blabbing? Rita?”

Tuppence shook her head. She was doubtful as to how long she could
sustain this illusion, but she realized the importance of not dragging
an unknown Rita into it.

“No,” she replied with perfect truth. “Rita knows nothing about me.”

His eyes still bored into her like gimlets.

“How much do you know?” he shot out.

“Very little indeed,” answered Tuppence, and was pleased to note that
Whittington’s uneasiness was augmented instead of allayed. To have
boasted that she knew a lot might have raised doubts in his mind.

“Anyway,” snarled Whittington, “you knew enough to come in here and
plump out that name.”

“It might be my own name,” Tuppence pointed out.

“It’s likely, isn’t it, then there would be two girls with a name like
that?”

“Or I might just have hit upon it by chance,” continued Tuppence,
intoxicated with the success of truthfulness.

Mr. Whittington brought his fist down upon the desk with a bang.

“Quit fooling! How much do you know? And how much do you want?”

The last five words took Tuppence’s fancy mightily, especially after a
meagre breakfast and a supper of buns the night before. Her present part
was of the adventuress rather than the adventurous order, but she did
not deny its possibilities. She sat up and smiled with the air of one
who has the situation thoroughly well in hand.

“My dear Mr. Whittington,” she said, “let us by all means lay our cards
upon the table. And pray do not be so angry. You heard me say yesterday
that I proposed to live by my wits. It seems to me that I have now
proved I have some wits to live by! I admit I have knowledge of a
certain name, but perhaps my knowledge ends there.”

“Yes--and perhaps it doesn’t,” snarled Whittington.

“You insist on misjudging me,” said Tuppence, and sighed gently.

“As I said once before,” said Whittington angrily, “quit fooling, and
come to the point. You can’t play the innocent with me. You know a great
deal more than you’re willing to admit.”

Tuppence paused a moment to admire her own ingenuity, and then said
softly:

“I shouldn’t like to contradict you, Mr. Whittington.”

“So we come to the usual question--how much?”

Tuppence was in a dilemma. So far she had fooled Whittington with
complete success, but to mention a palpably impossible sum might awaken
his suspicions. An idea flashed across her brain.

“Suppose we say a little something down, and a fuller discussion of the
matter later?”

Whittington gave her an ugly glance.

“Blackmail, eh?”

Tuppence smiled sweetly.

“Oh no! Shall we say payment of services in advance?”

Whittington grunted.

“You see,” explained Tuppence still sweetly, “I’m so very fond of
money!”

“You’re about the limit, that’s what you are,” growled Whittington, with
a sort of unwilling admiration. “You took me in all right. Thought you
were quite a meek little kid with just enough brains for my purpose.”

“Life,” moralized Tuppence, “is full of surprises.”

“All the same,” continued Whittington, “some one’s been talking. You say
it isn’t Rita. Was it----? Oh, come in.”

The clerk followed his discreet knock into the room, and laid a paper at
his master’s elbow.

“Telephone message just come for you, sir.”

Whittington snatched it up and read it. A frown gathered on his brow.

“That’ll do, Brown. You can go.”

The clerk withdrew, closing the door behind him. Whittington turned to
Tuppence.

“Come to-morrow at the same time. I’m busy now. Here’s fifty to go on
with.”

He rapidly sorted out some notes, and pushed them across the table to
Tuppence, then stood up, obviously impatient for her to go.

The girl counted the notes in a businesslike manner, secured them in her
handbag, and rose.

“Good morning, Mr. Whittington,” she said politely. “At least, au
revoir, I should say.”

“Exactly. Au revoir!” Whittington looked almost genial again, a
reversion that aroused in Tuppence a faint misgiving. “Au revoir, my
clever and charming young lady.”

Tuppence sped lightly down the stairs. A wild elation possessed her. A
neighbouring clock showed the time to be five minutes to twelve.

“Let’s give Tommy a surprise!” murmured Tuppence, and hailed a taxi.

The cab drew up outside the tube station. Tommy was just within the
entrance. His eyes opened to their fullest extent as he hurried forward
to assist Tuppence to alight. She smiled at him affectionately, and
remarked in a slightly affected voice:

“Pay the thing, will you, old bean? I’ve got nothing smaller than a
five-pound note!”



CHAPTER III. A SET BACK

THE moment was not quite so triumphant as it ought to have been. To
begin with, the resources of Tommy’s pockets were somewhat limited. In
the end the fare was managed, the lady recollecting a plebeian twopence,
and the driver, still holding the varied assortment of coins in his
hand, was prevailed upon to move on, which he did after one last hoarse
demand as to what the gentleman thought he was giving him?

“I think you’ve given him too much, Tommy,” said Tuppence innocently. “I
fancy he wants to give some of it back.”

It was possibly this remark which induced the driver to move away.

“Well,” said Mr. Beresford, at length able to relieve his feelings,
“what the--dickens, did you want to take a taxi for?”

“I was afraid I might be late and keep you waiting,” said Tuppence
gently.

“Afraid--you--might--be--late! Oh, Lord, I give it up!” said Mr.
Beresford.

“And really and truly,” continued Tuppence, opening her eyes very wide,
“I haven’t got anything smaller than a five-pound note.”

“You did that part of it very well, old bean, but all the same the
fellow wasn’t taken in--not for a moment!”

“No,” said Tuppence thoughtfully, “he didn’t believe it. That’s the
curious part about speaking the truth. No one does believe it. I found
that out this morning. Now let’s go to lunch. How about the _Savoy?_”

Tommy grinned.

“How about the _Ritz?_”

“On second thoughts, I prefer the _Piccadilly_. It’s nearer. We shan’t
have to take another taxi. Come along.”

“Is this a new brand of humour? Or is your brain really unhinged?”
 inquired Tommy.

“Your last supposition is the correct one. I have come into money, and
the shock has been too much for me! For that particular form of mental
trouble an eminent physician recommends unlimited _Hors d’œuvre_,
Lobster _à l’américane_, Chicken Newberg, and Pêche Melba! Let’s go
and get them!”

“Tuppence, old girl, what has really come over you?”

“Oh, unbelieving one!” Tuppence wrenched open her bag. “Look here, and
here, and here!”

“Great Jehosaphat! My dear girl, don’t wave Fishers aloft like that!”

“They’re not Fishers. They’re five times better than Fishers, and this
one’s ten times better!”

Tommy groaned.

“I must have been drinking unawares! Am I dreaming, Tuppence, or do I
really behold a large quantity of five-pound notes being waved about in
a dangerous fashion?”

“Even so, O King! _Now_, will you come and have lunch?”

“I’ll come anywhere. But what have you been doing? Holding up a bank?”

“All in good time. What an awful place Piccadilly Circus is. There’s a
huge bus bearing down on us. It would be too terrible if they killed the
five-pound notes!”

“Grill room?” inquired Tommy, as they reached the opposite pavement in
safety.

“The other’s more expensive,” demurred Tuppence.

“That’s mere wicked wanton extravagance. Come on below.”

“Are you sure I can get all the things I want there?”

“That extremely unwholesome menu you were outlining just now? Of course
you can--or as much as is good for you, anyway.”

“And now tell me,” said Tommy, unable to restrain his pent-up curiosity
any longer, as they sat in state surrounded by the many _hors d’œuvre_
of Tuppence’s dreams.

Miss Cowley told him.

“And the curious part of it is,” she ended, “that I really did invent
the name of Jane Finn! I didn’t want to give my own because of poor
father--in case I should get mixed up in anything shady.”

“Perhaps that’s so,” said Tommy slowly. “But you didn’t invent it.”

“What?”

“No. _I_ told it to you. Don’t you remember, I said yesterday I’d
overheard two people talking about a female called Jane Finn? That’s
what brought the name into your mind so pat.”

“So you did. I remember now. How extraordinary----” Tuppence tailed off
into silence. Suddenly she aroused herself. “Tommy!”

“Yes?”

“What were they like, the two men you passed?”

Tommy frowned in an effort at remembrance.

“One was a big fat sort of chap. Clean shaven, I think--and dark.”

“That’s him,” cried Tuppence, in an ungrammatical squeal. “That’s
Whittington! What was the other man like?”

“I can’t remember. I didn’t notice him particularly. It was really the
outlandish name that caught my attention.”

“And people say that coincidences don’t happen!” Tuppence tackled her
Pêche Melba happily.

But Tommy had become serious.

“Look here, Tuppence, old girl, what is this going to lead to?”

“More money,” replied his companion.

“I know that. You’ve only got one idea in your head. What I mean is,
what about the next step? How are you going to keep the game up?”

“Oh!” Tuppence laid down her spoon. “You’re right, Tommy, it is a bit of
a poser.”

“After all, you know, you can’t bluff him forever. You’re sure to slip
up sooner or later. And, anyway, I’m not at all sure that it isn’t
actionable--blackmail, you know.”

“Nonsense. Blackmail is saying you’ll tell unless you are given
money. Now, there’s nothing I could tell, because I don’t really know
anything.”

“Hm,” said Tommy doubtfully. “Well, anyway, what _are_ we going to do?
Whittington was in a hurry to get rid of you this morning, but next time
he’ll want to know something more before he parts with his money. He’ll
want to know how much _you_ know, and where you got your information
from, and a lot of other things that you can’t cope with. What are you
going to do about it?”

Tuppence frowned severely.

“We must think. Order some Turkish coffee, Tommy. Stimulating to the
brain. Oh, dear, what a lot I have eaten!”

“You have made rather a hog of yourself! So have I for that matter, but
I flatter myself that my choice of dishes was more judicious than yours.
Two coffees.” (This was to the waiter.) “One Turkish, one French.”

Tuppence sipped her coffee with a deeply reflective air, and snubbed
Tommy when he spoke to her.

“Be quiet. I’m thinking.”

“Shades of Pelmanism!” said Tommy, and relapsed into silence.

“There!” said Tuppence at last. “I’ve got a plan. Obviously what we’ve
got to do is to find out more about it all.”

Tommy applauded.

“Don’t jeer. We can only find out through Whittington. We must discover
where he lives, what he does--sleuth him, in fact! Now I can’t do it,
because he knows me, but he only saw you for a minute or two in Lyons’.
He’s not likely to recognize you. After all, one young man is much like
another.”

“I repudiate that remark utterly. I’m sure my pleasing features and
distinguished appearance would single me out from any crowd.”

“My plan is this,” Tuppence went on calmly, “I’ll go alone to-morrow.
I’ll put him off again like I did to-day. It doesn’t matter if I don’t
get any more money at once. Fifty pounds ought to last us a few days.”

“Or even longer!”

“You’ll hang about outside. When I come out I shan’t speak to you in
case he’s watching. But I’ll take up my stand somewhere near, and when
he comes out of the building I’ll drop a handkerchief or something, and
off you go!”

“Off I go where?”

“Follow him, of course, silly! What do you think of the idea?”

“Sort of thing one reads about in books. I somehow feel that in real
life one will feel a bit of an ass standing in the street for hours with
nothing to do. People will wonder what I’m up to.”

“Not in the city. Every one’s in such a hurry. Probably no one will even
notice you at all.”

“That’s the second time you’ve made that sort of remark. Never mind, I
forgive you. Anyway, it will be rather a lark. What are you doing this
afternoon?”

“Well,” said Tuppence meditatively. “I _had_ thought of hats! Or perhaps
silk stockings! Or perhaps----”

“Hold hard,” admonished Tommy. “There’s a limit to fifty pounds! But
let’s do dinner and a show to-night at all events.”

“Rather.”

The day passed pleasantly. The evening even more so. Two of the
five-pound notes were now irretrievably dead.

They met by arrangement the following morning and proceeded citywards.
Tommy remained on the opposite side of the road while Tuppence plunged
into the building.

Tommy strolled slowly down to the end of the street, then back again.
Just as he came abreast of the building, Tuppence darted across the
road.

“Tommy!”

“Yes. What’s up?”

“The place is shut. I can’t make anyone hear.”

“That’s odd.”

“Isn’t it? Come up with me, and let’s try again.”

Tommy followed her. As they passed the third floor landing a young clerk
came out of an office. He hesitated a moment, then addressed himself to
Tuppence.

“Were you wanting the Esthonia Glassware?”

“Yes, please.”

“It’s closed down. Since yesterday afternoon. Company being wound up,
they say. Not that I’ve ever heard of it myself. But anyway the office
is to let.”

“Th--thank you,” faltered Tuppence. “I suppose you don’t know Mr.
Whittington’s address?”

“Afraid I don’t. They left rather suddenly.”

“Thank you very much,” said Tommy. “Come on, Tuppence.”

They descended to the street again where they gazed at one another
blankly.

“That’s torn it,” said Tommy at length.

“And I never suspected it,” wailed Tuppence.

“Cheer up, old thing, it can’t be helped.”

“Can’t it, though!” Tuppence’s little chin shot out defiantly. “Do you
think this is the end? If so, you’re wrong. It’s just the beginning!”

“The beginning of what?”

“Of our adventure! Tommy, don’t you see, if they are scared enough to
run away like this, it shows that there must be a lot in this Jane Finn
business! Well, we’ll get to the bottom of it. We’ll run them down!
We’ll be sleuths in earnest!”

“Yes, but there’s no one left to sleuth.”

“No, that’s why we’ll have to start all over again. Lend me that bit of
pencil. Thanks. Wait a minute--don’t interrupt. There!” Tuppence handed
back the pencil, and surveyed the piece of paper on which she had
written with a satisfied eye:

“What’s that?”

“Advertisement.”

“You’re not going to put that thing in after all?”

“No, it’s a different one.” She handed him the slip of paper.

Tommy read the words on it aloud:

“WANTED, any information respecting Jane Finn. Apply Y. A.”



CHAPTER IV. WHO IS JANE FINN?

THE next day passed slowly. It was necessary to curtail expenditure.
Carefully husbanded, forty pounds will last a long time. Luckily the
weather was fine, and “walking is cheap,” dictated Tuppence. An outlying
picture house provided them with recreation for the evening.

The day of disillusionment had been a Wednesday. On Thursday the
advertisement had duly appeared. On Friday letters might be expected to
arrive at Tommy’s rooms.

He had been bound by an honourable promise not to open any such letters
if they did arrive, but to repair to the National Gallery, where his
colleague would meet him at ten o’clock.

Tuppence was first at the rendezvous. She ensconced herself on a red
velvet seat, and gazed at the Turners with unseeing eyes until she saw
the familiar figure enter the room.

“Well?”

“Well,” returned Mr. Beresford provokingly. “Which is your favourite
picture?”

“Don’t be a wretch. Aren’t there _any_ answers?”

Tommy shook his head with a deep and somewhat overacted melancholy.

“I didn’t want to disappoint you, old thing, by telling you right off.
It’s too bad. Good money wasted.” He sighed. “Still, there it is. The
advertisement has appeared, and--there are only two answers!”

“Tommy, you devil!” almost screamed Tuppence. “Give them to me. How
could you be so mean!”

“Your language, Tuppence, your language! They’re very particular at the
National Gallery. Government show, you know. And do remember, as I have
pointed out to you before, that as a clergyman’s daughter----”

“I ought to be on the stage!” finished Tuppence with a snap.

“That is not what I intended to say. But if you are sure that you have
enjoyed to the full the reaction of joy after despair with which I have
kindly provided you free of charge, let us get down to our mail, as the
saying goes.”

Tuppence snatched the two precious envelopes from him unceremoniously,
and scrutinized them carefully.

“Thick paper, this one. It looks rich. We’ll keep it to the last and
open the other first.”

“Right you are. One, two, three, go!”

Tuppence’s little thumb ripped open the envelope, and she extracted the
contents.

“DEAR SIR,

“Referring to your advertisement in this morning’s paper, I may be able
to be of some use to you. Perhaps you could call and see me at the above
address at eleven o’clock to-morrow morning.

“Yours truly,

“A. CARTER.”

“27 Carshalton Gardens,” said Tuppence, referring to the address.
“That’s Gloucester Road way. Plenty of time to get there if we tube.”

“The following,” said Tommy, “is the plan of campaign. It is my turn to
assume the offensive. Ushered into the presence of Mr. Carter, he and I
wish each other good morning as is customary. He then says: ‘Please take
a seat, Mr.--er?’ To which I reply promptly and significantly: ‘Edward
Whittington!’ whereupon Mr. Carter turns purple in the face and gasps
out: ‘How much?’ Pocketing the usual fee of fifty pounds, I rejoin you
in the road outside, and we proceed to the next address and repeat the
performance.”

“Don’t be absurd, Tommy. Now for the other letter. Oh, this is from the
_Ritz!_”

“A hundred pounds instead of fifty!”

“I’ll read it:

“DEAR SIR,

“Re your advertisement, I should be glad if you would call round
somewhere about lunch-time.

“Yours truly,

“JULIUS P. HERSHEIMMER.”

“Ha!” said Tommy. “Do I smell a Boche? Or only an American millionaire
of unfortunate ancestry? At all events we’ll call at lunch-time. It’s a
good time--frequently leads to free food for two.”

Tuppence nodded assent.

“Now for Carter. We’ll have to hurry.”

Carshalton Terrace proved to be an unimpeachable row of what Tuppence
called “ladylike looking houses.” They rang the bell at No. 27, and a
neat maid answered the door. She looked so respectable that Tuppence’s
heart sank. Upon Tommy’s request for Mr. Carter, she showed them into
a small study on the ground floor where she left them. Hardly a minute
elapsed, however, before the door opened, and a tall man with a lean
hawklike face and a tired manner entered the room.

“Mr. Y. A.?” he said, and smiled. His smile was distinctly attractive.
“Do sit down, both of you.”

They obeyed. He himself took a chair opposite to Tuppence and smiled at
her encouragingly. There was something in the quality of his smile that
made the girl’s usual readiness desert her.

As he did not seem inclined to open the conversation, Tuppence was
forced to begin.

“We wanted to know--that is, would you be so kind as to tell us anything
you know about Jane Finn?”

“Jane Finn? Ah!” Mr. Carter appeared to reflect. “Well, the question is,
what do _you_ know about her?”

Tuppence drew herself up.

“I don’t see that that’s got anything to do with it.”

“No? But it has, you know, really it has.” He smiled again in his tired
way, and continued reflectively. “So that brings us down to it again.
What do _you_ know about Jane Finn?

“Come now,” he continued, as Tuppence remained silent. “You must know
_something_ to have advertised as you did?” He leaned forward a little,
his weary voice held a hint of persuasiveness. “Suppose you tell me....”

There was something very magnetic about Mr. Carter’s personality.
Tuppence seemed to shake herself free of it with an effort, as she said:

“We couldn’t do that, could we, Tommy?”

But to her surprise, her companion did not back her up. His eyes were
fixed on Mr. Carter, and his tone when he spoke held an unusual note of
deference.

“I dare say the little we know won’t be any good to you, sir. But such
as it is, you’re welcome to it.”

“Tommy!” cried out Tuppence in surprise.

Mr. Carter slewed round in his chair. His eyes asked a question.

Tommy nodded.

“Yes, sir, I recognized you at once. Saw you in France when I was with
the Intelligence. As soon as you came into the room, I knew----”

Mr. Carter held up his hand.

“No names, please. I’m known as Mr. Carter here. It’s my cousin’s house,
by the way. She’s willing to lend it to me sometimes when it’s a case of
working on strictly unofficial lines. Well, now”--he looked from one to
the other--“who’s going to tell me the story?”

“Fire ahead, Tuppence,” directed Tommy. “It’s your yarn.”

“Yes, little lady, out with it.”

And obediently Tuppence did out with it, telling the whole story from
the forming of the Young Adventurers, Ltd., downwards.

Mr. Carter listened in silence with a resumption of his tired manner.
Now and then he passed his hand across his lips as though to hide a
smile. When she had finished he nodded gravely.

“Not much. But suggestive. Quite suggestive. If you’ll excuse my saying
so, you’re a curious young couple. I don’t know--you might succeed where
others have failed ... I believe in luck, you know--always have....”

He paused a moment, and then went on.

“Well, how about it? You’re out for adventure. How would you like
to work for me? All quite unofficial, you know. Expenses paid, and a
moderate screw?”

Tuppence gazed at him, her lips parted, her eyes growing wider and
wider.

“What should we have to do?” she breathed.

Mr. Carter smiled.

“Just go on with what you’re doing now. _Find Jane Finn_.”

“Yes, but--who _is_ Jane Finn?”

Mr. Carter nodded gravely.

“Yes, you’re entitled to know that, I think.”

He leaned back in his chair, crossed his legs, brought the tips of his
fingers together, and began in a low monotone:

“Secret diplomacy (which, by the way, is nearly always bad policy!) does
not concern you. It will be sufficient to say that in the early days of
1915 a certain document came into being. It was the draft of a secret
agreement--treaty--call it what you like. It was drawn up ready for
signature by the various representatives, and drawn up in America--at
that time a neutral country. It was dispatched to England by a special
messenger selected for that purpose, a young fellow called Danvers. It
was hoped that the whole affair had been kept so secret that nothing
would have leaked out. That kind of hope is usually disappointed.
Somebody always talks!

“Danvers sailed for England on the _Lusitania_. He carried the precious
papers in an oilskin packet which he wore next his skin. It was on that
particular voyage that the _Lusitania_ was torpedoed and sunk. Danvers
was among the list of those missing. Eventually his body was washed
ashore, and identified beyond any possible doubt. But the oilskin packet
was missing!

“The question was, had it been taken from him, or had he himself
passed it on into another’s keeping? There were a few incidents that
strengthened the possibility of the latter theory. After the torpedo
struck the ship, in the few moments during the launching of the boats,
Danvers was seen speaking to a young American girl. No one actually
saw him pass anything to her, but he might have done so. It seems to me
quite likely that he entrusted the papers to this girl, believing that
she, as a woman, had a greater chance of bringing them safely to shore.

“But if so, where was the girl, and what had she done with the papers?
By later advice from America it seemed likely that Danvers had been
closely shadowed on the way over. Was this girl in league with his
enemies? Or had she, in her turn, been shadowed and either tricked or
forced into handing over the precious packet?

“We set to work to trace her out. It proved unexpectedly difficult.
Her name was Jane Finn, and it duly appeared among the list of the
survivors, but the girl herself seemed to have vanished completely.
Inquiries into her antecedents did little to help us. She was an orphan,
and had been what we should call over here a pupil teacher in a small
school out West. Her passport had been made out for Paris, where she
was going to join the staff of a hospital. She had offered her services
voluntarily, and after some correspondence they had been accepted.
Having seen her name in the list of the saved from the _Lusitania_, the
staff of the hospital were naturally very surprised at her not arriving
to take up her billet, and at not hearing from her in any way.

“Well, every effort was made to trace the young lady--but all in vain.
We tracked her across Ireland, but nothing could be heard of her after
she set foot in England. No use was made of the draft treaty--as might
very easily have been done--and we therefore came to the conclusion that
Danvers had, after all, destroyed it. The war entered on another phase,
the diplomatic aspect changed accordingly, and the treaty was never
redrafted. Rumours as to its existence were emphatically denied. The
disappearance of Jane Finn was forgotten and the whole affair was lost
in oblivion.”

Mr. Carter paused, and Tuppence broke in impatiently:

“But why has it all cropped up again? The war’s over.”

A hint of alertness came into Mr. Carter’s manner.

“Because it seems that the papers were not destroyed after all, and that
they might be resurrected to-day with a new and deadly significance.”

Tuppence stared. Mr. Carter nodded.

“Yes, five years ago, that draft treaty was a weapon in our hands;
to-day it is a weapon against us. It was a gigantic blunder. If its
terms were made public, it would mean disaster.... It might possibly
bring about another war--not with Germany this time! That is an extreme
possibility, and I do not believe in its likelihood myself, but that
document undoubtedly implicates a number of our statesmen whom we cannot
afford to have discredited in any way at the present moment. As a party
cry for Labour it would be irresistible, and a Labour Government at this
juncture would, in my opinion, be a grave disability for British trade,
but that is a mere nothing to the _real_ danger.”

He paused, and then said quietly:

“You may perhaps have heard or read that there is Bolshevist influence
at work behind the present Labour unrest?”

Tuppence nodded.

“That is the truth. Bolshevist gold is pouring into this country for the
specific purpose of procuring a Revolution. And there is a certain man,
a man whose real name is unknown to us, who is working in the dark for
his own ends. The Bolshevists are behind the Labour unrest--but this
man is _behind the Bolshevists_. Who is he? We do not know. He is always
spoken of by the unassuming title of ‘Mr. Brown.’ But one thing is
certain, he is the master criminal of this age. He controls a marvellous
organization. Most of the Peace propaganda during the war was originated
and financed by him. His spies are everywhere.”

“A naturalized German?” asked Tommy.

“On the contrary, I have every reason to believe he is an Englishman. He
was pro-German, as he would have been pro-Boer. What he seeks to attain
we do not know--probably supreme power for himself, of a kind unique in
history. We have no clue as to his real personality. It is reported that
even his own followers are ignorant of it. Where we have come across his
tracks, he has always played a secondary part. Somebody else assumes
the chief rôle. But afterwards we always find that there has been some
nonentity, a servant or a clerk, who has remained in the background
unnoticed, and that the elusive Mr. Brown has escaped us once more.”

“Oh!” Tuppence jumped. “I wonder----”

“Yes?”

“I remember in Mr. Whittington’s office. The clerk--he called him Brown.
You don’t think----”

Carter nodded thoughtfully.

“Very likely. A curious point is that the name is usually mentioned. An
idiosyncrasy of genius. Can you describe him at all?”

“I really didn’t notice. He was quite ordinary--just like anyone else.”

Mr. Carter sighed in his tired manner.

“That is the invariable description of Mr. Brown! Brought a telephone
message to the man Whittington, did he? Notice a telephone in the outer
office?”

Tuppence thought.

“No, I don’t think I did.”

“Exactly. That ‘message’ was Mr. Brown’s way of giving an order to his
subordinate. He overheard the whole conversation of course. Was it after
that that Whittington handed you over the money, and told you to come
the following day?”

Tuppence nodded.

“Yes, undoubtedly the hand of Mr. Brown!” Mr. Carter paused. “Well,
there it is, you see what you are pitting yourselves against? Possibly
the finest criminal brain of the age. I don’t quite like it, you know.
You’re such young things, both of you. I shouldn’t like anything to
happen to you.”

“It won’t,” Tuppence assured him positively.

“I’ll look after her, sir,” said Tommy.

“And _I_‘ll look after _you_,” retorted Tuppence, resenting the manly
assertion.

“Well, then, look after each other,” said Mr. Carter, smiling. “Now
let’s get back to business. There’s something mysterious about this
draft treaty that we haven’t fathomed yet. We’ve been threatened with
it--in plain and unmistakable terms. The Revolutionary element as good
as declare that it’s in their hands, and that they intend to produce it
at a given moment. On the other hand, they are clearly at fault about
many of its provisions. The Government consider it as mere bluff
on their part, and, rightly or wrongly, have stuck to the policy of
absolute denial. I’m not so sure. There have been hints, indiscreet
allusions, that seem to indicate that the menace is a real one. The
position is much as though they had got hold of an incriminating
document, but couldn’t read it because it was in cipher--but we know
that the draft treaty wasn’t in cipher--couldn’t be in the nature of
things--so that won’t wash. But there’s _something_. Of course, Jane
Finn may be dead for all we know--but I don’t think so. The curious
thing is that _they’re trying to get information about the girl from
us_.”

“What?”

“Yes. One or two little things have cropped up. And your story, little
lady, confirms my idea. They know we’re looking for Jane Finn. Well,
they’ll produce a Jane Finn of their own--say at a _pensionnat_ in
Paris.” Tuppence gasped, and Mr. Carter smiled. “No one knows in the
least what she looks like, so that’s all right. She’s primed with a
trumped-up tale, and her real business is to get as much information as
possible out of us. See the idea?”

“Then you think”--Tuppence paused to grasp the supposition fully--“that
it _was_ as Jane Finn that they wanted me to go to Paris?”

Mr. Carter smiled more wearily than ever.

“I believe in coincidences, you know,” he said.



CHAPTER V. MR. JULIUS P. HERSHEIMMER

“WELL,” said Tuppence, recovering herself, “it really seems as though it
were meant to be.”

Carter nodded.

“I know what you mean. I’m superstitious myself. Luck, and all that sort
of thing. Fate seems to have chosen you out to be mixed up in this.”

Tommy indulged in a chuckle.

“My word! I don’t wonder Whittington got the wind up when Tuppence
plumped out that name! I should have myself. But look here, sir, we’re
taking up an awful lot of your time. Have you any tips to give us before
we clear out?”

“I think not. My experts, working in stereotyped ways, have failed.
You will bring imagination and an open mind to the task. Don’t be
discouraged if that too does not succeed. For one thing there is a
likelihood of the pace being forced.”

Tuppence frowned uncomprehendingly.

“When you had that interview with Whittington, they had time before
them. I have information that the big _coup_ was planned for early in
the new year. But the Government is contemplating legislative action
which will deal effectually with the strike menace. They’ll get wind of
it soon, if they haven’t already, and it’s possible that that may bring
things to a head. I hope it will myself. The less time they have to
mature their plans the better. I’m just warning you that you haven’t
much time before you, and that you needn’t be cast down if you fail.
It’s not an easy proposition anyway. That’s all.”

Tuppence rose.

“I think we ought to be businesslike. What exactly can we count upon you
for, Mr. Carter?” Mr. Carter’s lips twitched slightly, but he replied
succinctly: “Funds within reason, detailed information on any point,
and _no official recognition_. I mean that if you get yourselves into
trouble with the police, I can’t officially help you out of it. You’re
on your own.”

Tuppence nodded sagely.

“I quite understand that. I’ll write out a list of the things I want to
know when I’ve had time to think. Now--about money----”

“Yes, Miss Tuppence. Do you want to say how much?”

“Not exactly. We’ve got plenty to go with for the present, but when we
want more----”

“It will be waiting for you.”

“Yes, but--I’m sure I don’t want to be rude about the Government if
you’ve got anything to do with it, but you know one really has the devil
of a time getting anything out of it! And if we have to fill up a blue
form and send it in, and then, after three months, they send us a green
one, and so on--well, that won’t be much use, will it?”

Mr. Carter laughed outright.

“Don’t worry, Miss Tuppence. You will send a personal demand to me here,
and the money, in notes, shall be sent by return of post. As to salary,
shall we say at the rate of three hundred a year? And an equal sum for
Mr. Beresford, of course.”

Tuppence beamed upon him.

“How lovely. You are kind. I do love money! I’ll keep beautiful accounts
of our expenses all debit and credit, and the balance on the right side,
and red line drawn sideways with the totals the same at the bottom. I
really know how to do it when I think.”

“I’m sure you do. Well, good-bye, and good luck to you both.”

He shook hands with them, and in another minute they were descending the
steps of 27 Carshalton Terrace with their heads in a whirl.

“Tommy! Tell me at once, who is ‘Mr. Carter’?”

Tommy murmured a name in her ear.

“Oh!” said Tuppence, impressed.

“And I can tell you, old bean, he’s IT!”

“Oh!” said Tuppence again. Then she added reflectively,

“I like him, don’t you? He looks so awfully tired and bored, and yet you
feel that underneath he’s just like steel, all keen and flashing. Oh!”
 She gave a skip. “Pinch me, Tommy, do pinch me. I can’t believe it’s
real!”

Mr. Beresford obliged.

“Ow! That’s enough! Yes, we’re not dreaming. We’ve got a job!”

“And what a job! The joint venture has really begun.”

“It’s more respectable than I thought it would be,” said Tuppence
thoughtfully.

“Luckily I haven’t got your craving for crime! What time is it? Let’s
have lunch--oh!”

The same thought sprang to the minds of each. Tommy voiced it first.

“Julius P. Hersheimmer!”

“We never told Mr. Carter about hearing from him.”

“Well, there wasn’t much to tell--not till we’ve seen him. Come on, we’d
better take a taxi.”

“Now who’s being extravagant?”

“All expenses paid, remember. Hop in.”

“At any rate, we shall make a better effect arriving this way,” said
Tuppence, leaning back luxuriously. “I’m sure blackmailers never arrive
in buses!”

“We’ve ceased being blackmailers,” Tommy pointed out.

“I’m not sure I have,” said Tuppence darkly.

On inquiring for Mr. Hersheimmer, they were at once taken up to his
suite. An impatient voice cried “Come in” in answer to the page-boy’s
knock, and the lad stood aside to let them pass in.

Mr. Julius P. Hersheimmer was a great deal younger than either Tommy or
Tuppence had pictured him. The girl put him down as thirty-five. He
was of middle height, and squarely built to match his jaw. His face was
pugnacious but pleasant. No one could have mistaken him for anything but
an American, though he spoke with very little accent.

“Get my note? Sit down and tell me right away all you know about my
cousin.”

“Your cousin?”

“Sure thing. Jane Finn.”

“Is she your cousin?”

“My father and her mother were brother and sister,” explained Mr.
Hersheimmer meticulously.

“Oh!” cried Tuppence. “Then you know where she is?”

“No!” Mr. Hersheimmer brought down his fist with a bang on the table.
“I’m darned if I do! Don’t you?”

“We advertised to receive information, not to give it,” said Tuppence
severely.

“I guess I know that. I can read. But I thought maybe it was her back
history you were after, and that you’d know where she was now?”

“Well, we wouldn’t mind hearing her back history,” said Tuppence
guardedly.

But Mr. Hersheimmer seemed to grow suddenly suspicious.

“See here,” he declared. “This isn’t Sicily! No demanding ransom or
threatening to crop her ears if I refuse. These are the British Isles,
so quit the funny business, or I’ll just sing out for that beautiful big
British policeman I see out there in Piccadilly.”

Tommy hastened to explain.

“We haven’t kidnapped your cousin. On the contrary, we’re trying to find
her. We’re employed to do so.”

Mr. Hersheimmer leant back in his chair.

“Put me wise,” he said succinctly.

Tommy fell in with this demand in so far as he gave him a guarded
version of the disappearance of Jane Finn, and of the possibility of her
having been mixed up unawares in “some political show.” He alluded to
Tuppence and himself as “private inquiry agents” commissioned to find
her, and added that they would therefore be glad of any details Mr.
Hersheimmer could give them.

That gentleman nodded approval.

“I guess that’s all right. I was just a mite hasty. But London gets my
goat! I only know little old New York. Just trot out your questions and
I’ll answer.”

For the moment this paralysed the Young Adventurers, but Tuppence,
recovering herself, plunged boldly into the breach with a reminiscence
culled from detective fiction.

“When did you last see the dece--your cousin, I mean?”

“Never seen her,” responded Mr. Hersheimmer.

“What?” demanded Tommy, astonished.

Hersheimmer turned to him.

“No, sir. As I said before, my father and her mother were brother and
sister, just as you might be”--Tommy did not correct this view of their
relationship--“but they didn’t always get on together. And when my aunt
made up her mind to marry Amos Finn, who was a poor school teacher out
West, my father was just mad! Said if he made his pile, as he seemed
in a fair way to do, she’d never see a cent of it. Well, the upshot was
that Aunt Jane went out West and we never heard from her again.

“The old man _did_ pile it up. He went into oil, and he went into steel,
and he played a bit with railroads, and I can tell you he made Wall
Street sit up!” He paused. “Then he died--last fall--and I got the
dollars. Well, would you believe it, my conscience got busy! Kept
knocking me up and saying: What about your Aunt Jane, way out West? It
worried me some. You see, I figured it out that Amos Finn would never
make good. He wasn’t the sort. End of it was, I hired a man to hunt her
down. Result, she was dead, and Amos Finn was dead, but they’d left a
daughter--Jane--who’d been torpedoed in the _Lusitania_ on her way to
Paris. She was saved all right, but they didn’t seem able to hear of her
over this side. I guessed they weren’t hustling any, so I thought I’d
come along over, and speed things up. I phoned Scotland Yard and the
Admiralty first thing. The Admiralty rather choked me off, but Scotland
Yard were very civil--said they would make inquiries, even sent a man
round this morning to get her photograph. I’m off to Paris to-morrow,
just to see what the Prefecture is doing. I guess if I go to and fro
hustling them, they ought to get busy!”

The energy of Mr. Hersheimmer was tremendous. They bowed before it.

“But say now,” he ended, “you’re not after her for anything? Contempt of
court, or something British? A proud-spirited young American girl might
find your rules and regulations in war time rather irksome, and get up
against it. If that’s the case, and there’s such a thing as graft in
this country, I’ll buy her off.”

Tuppence reassured him.

“That’s good. Then we can work together. What about some lunch? Shall we
have it up here, or go down to the restaurant?”

Tuppence expressed a preference for the latter, and Julius bowed to her
decision.

Oysters had just given place to Sole Colbert when a card was brought to
Hersheimmer.

“Inspector Japp, C.I.D. Scotland Yard again. Another man this time. What
does he expect I can tell him that I didn’t tell the first chap? I hope
they haven’t lost that photograph. That Western photographer’s place was
burned down and all his negatives destroyed--this is the only copy in
existence. I got it from the principal of the college there.”

An unformulated dread swept over Tuppence.

“You--you don’t know the name of the man who came this morning?”

“Yes, I do. No, I don’t. Half a second. It was on his card. Oh, I know!
Inspector Brown. Quiet, unassuming sort of chap.”



CHAPTER VI. A PLAN OF CAMPAIGN

A veil might with profit be drawn over the events of the next half-hour.
Suffice it to say that no such person as “Inspector Brown” was known to
Scotland Yard. The photograph of Jane Finn, which would have been of
the utmost value to the police in tracing her, was lost beyond recovery.
Once again “Mr. Brown” had triumphed.

The immediate result of this set-back was to effect a _rapprochement_
between Julius Hersheimmer and the Young Adventurers. All barriers went
down with a crash, and Tommy and Tuppence felt they had known the young
American all their lives. They abandoned the discreet reticence of
“private inquiry agents,” and revealed to him the whole history of
the joint venture, whereat the young man declared himself “tickled to
death.”

He turned to Tuppence at the close of the narration.

“I’ve always had a kind of idea that English girls were just a mite
moss-grown. Old-fashioned and sweet, you know, but scared to move round
without a footman or a maiden aunt. I guess I’m a bit behind the times!”

The upshot of these confidential relations was that Tommy and Tuppence
took up their abode forthwith at the _Ritz_, in order, as Tuppence put
it, to keep in touch with Jane Finn’s only living relation. “And put
like that,” she added confidentially to Tommy, “nobody could boggle at
the expense!”

Nobody did, which was the great thing.

“And now,” said the young lady on the morning after their installation,
“to work!”

Mr. Beresford put down the _Daily Mail_, which he was reading, and
applauded with somewhat unnecessary vigour. He was politely requested by
his colleague not to be an ass.

“Dash it all, Tommy, we’ve got to _do_ something for our money.”

Tommy sighed.

“Yes, I fear even the dear old Government will not support us at the
_Ritz_ in idleness for ever.”

“Therefore, as I said before, we must _do_ something.”

“Well,” said Tommy, picking up the _Daily Mail_ again, “_do_ it. I
shan’t stop you.”

“You see,” continued Tuppence. “I’ve been thinking----”

She was interrupted by a fresh bout of applause.

“It’s all very well for you to sit there being funny, Tommy. It would do
you no harm to do a little brain work too.”

“My union, Tuppence, my union! It does not permit me to work before 11
a.m.”

“Tommy, do you want something thrown at you? It is absolutely essential
that we should without delay map out a plan of campaign.”

“Hear, hear!”

“Well, let’s do it.”

Tommy laid his paper finally aside. “There’s something of the simplicity
of the truly great mind about you, Tuppence. Fire ahead. I’m listening.”

“To begin with,” said Tuppence, “what have we to go upon?”

“Absolutely nothing,” said Tommy cheerily.

“Wrong!” Tuppence wagged an energetic finger. “We have two distinct
clues.”

“What are they?”

“First clue, we know one of the gang.”

“Whittington?”

“Yes. I’d recognize him anywhere.”

“Hum,” said Tommy doubtfully, “I don’t call that much of a clue. You
don’t know where to look for him, and it’s about a thousand to one
against your running against him by accident.”

“I’m not so sure about that,” replied Tuppence thoughtfully. “I’ve often
noticed that once coincidences start happening they go on happening in
the most extraordinary way. I dare say it’s some natural law that we
haven’t found out. Still, as you say, we can’t rely on that. But there
_are_ places in London where simply every one is bound to turn up sooner
or later. Piccadilly Circus, for instance. One of my ideas was to take
up my stand there every day with a tray of flags.”

“What about meals?” inquired the practical Tommy.

“How like a man! What does mere food matter?”

“That’s all very well. You’ve just had a thundering good breakfast. No
one’s got a better appetite than you have, Tuppence, and by tea-time
you’d be eating the flags, pins and all. But, honestly, I don’t think
much of the idea. Whittington mayn’t be in London at all.”

“That’s true. Anyway, I think clue No. 2 is more promising.”

“Let’s hear it.”

“It’s nothing much. Only a Christian name--Rita. Whittington mentioned
it that day.”

“Are you proposing a third advertisement: Wanted, female crook,
answering to the name of Rita?”

“I am not. I propose to reason in a logical manner. That man, Danvers,
was shadowed on the way over, wasn’t he? And it’s more likely to have
been a woman than a man----”

“I don’t see that at all.”

“I am absolutely certain that it would be a woman, and a good-looking
one,” replied Tuppence calmly.

“On these technical points I bow to your decision,” murmured Mr.
Beresford.

“Now, obviously this woman, whoever she was, was saved.”

“How do you make that out?”

“If she wasn’t, how would they have known Jane Finn had got the papers?”

“Correct. Proceed, O Sherlock!”

“Now there’s just a chance, I admit it’s only a chance, that this woman
may have been ‘Rita.’”

“And if so?”

“If so, we’ve got to hunt through the survivors of the _Lusitania_ till
we find her.”

“Then the first thing is to get a list of the survivors.”

“I’ve got it. I wrote a long list of things I wanted to know, and sent
it to Mr. Carter. I got his reply this morning, and among other things
it encloses the official statement of those saved from the _Lusitania_.
How’s that for clever little Tuppence?”

“Full marks for industry, zero for modesty. But the great point is, is
there a ‘Rita’ on the list?”

“That’s just what I don’t know,” confessed Tuppence.

“Don’t know?”

“Yes. Look here.” Together they bent over the list. “You see, very few
Christian names are given. They’re nearly all Mrs. or Miss.”

Tommy nodded.

“That complicates matters,” he murmured thoughtfully.

Tuppence gave her characteristic “terrier” shake.

“Well, we’ve just got to get down to it, that’s all. We’ll start with
the London area. Just note down the addresses of any of the females who
live in London or roundabout, while I put on my hat.”

Five minutes later the young couple emerged into Piccadilly, and a few
seconds later a taxi was bearing them to The Laurels, Glendower Road,
N.7, the residence of Mrs. Edgar Keith, whose name figured first in a
list of seven reposing in Tommy’s pocket-book.

The Laurels was a dilapidated house, standing back from the road with
a few grimy bushes to support the fiction of a front garden. Tommy paid
off the taxi, and accompanied Tuppence to the front door bell. As she
was about to ring it, he arrested her hand.

“What are you going to say?”

“What am I going to say? Why, I shall say--Oh dear, I don’t know. It’s
very awkward.”

“I thought as much,” said Tommy with satisfaction. “How like a woman! No
foresight! Now just stand aside, and see how easily the mere male
deals with the situation.” He pressed the bell. Tuppence withdrew to a
suitable spot.

A slatternly looking servant, with an extremely dirty face and a pair of
eyes that did not match, answered the door.

Tommy had produced a notebook and pencil.

“Good morning,” he said briskly and cheerfully. “From the Hampstead
Borough Council. The new Voting Register. Mrs. Edgar Keith lives here,
does she not?”

“Yaas,” said the servant.

“Christian name?” asked Tommy, his pencil poised.

“Missus’s? Eleanor Jane.”

“Eleanor,” spelt Tommy. “Any sons or daughters over twenty-one?”

“Naow.”

“Thank you.” Tommy closed the notebook with a brisk snap. “Good
morning.”

The servant volunteered her first remark:

“I thought perhaps as you’d come about the gas,” she observed
cryptically, and shut the door.

Tommy rejoined his accomplice.

“You see, Tuppence,” he observed. “Child’s play to the masculine mind.”

“I don’t mind admitting that for once you’ve scored handsomely. I should
never have thought of that.”

“Good wheeze, wasn’t it? And we can repeat it _ad lib_.”

Lunch-time found the young couple attacking a steak and chips in an
obscure hostelry with avidity. They had collected a Gladys Mary and a
Marjorie, been baffled by one change of address, and had been forced to
listen to a long lecture on universal suffrage from a vivacious American
lady whose Christian name had proved to be Sadie.

“Ah!” said Tommy, imbibing a long draught of beer, “I feel better.
Where’s the next draw?”

The notebook lay on the table between them. Tuppence picked it up.

“Mrs. Vandemeyer,” she read, “20 South Audley Mansions. Miss Wheeler, 43
Clapington Road, Battersea. She’s a lady’s maid, as far as I remember,
so probably won’t be there, and, anyway, she’s not likely.”

“Then the Mayfair lady is clearly indicated as the first port of call.”

“Tommy, I’m getting discouraged.”

“Buck up, old bean. We always knew it was an outside chance. And,
anyway, we’re only starting. If we draw a blank in London, there’s a
fine tour of England, Ireland and Scotland before us.”

“True,” said Tuppence, her flagging spirits reviving. “And all expenses
paid! But, oh, Tommy, I do like things to happen quickly. So far,
adventure has succeeded adventure, but this morning has been dull as
dull.”

“You must stifle this longing for vulgar sensation, Tuppence. Remember
that if Mr. Brown is all he is reported to be, it’s a wonder that he has
not ere now done us to death. That’s a good sentence, quite a literary
flavour about it.”

“You’re really more conceited than I am--with less excuse! Ahem! But it
certainly is queer that Mr. Brown has not yet wreaked vengeance upon us.
(You see, I can do it too.) We pass on our way unscathed.”

“Perhaps he doesn’t think us worth bothering about,” suggested the young
man simply.

Tuppence received the remark with great disfavour.

“How horrid you are, Tommy. Just as though we didn’t count.”

“Sorry, Tuppence. What I meant was that we work like moles in the dark,
and that he has no suspicion of our nefarious schemes. Ha ha!”

“Ha ha!” echoed Tuppence approvingly, as she rose.

South Audley Mansions was an imposing-looking block of flats just off
Park Lane. No. 20 was on the second floor.

Tommy had by this time the glibness born of practice. He rattled off
the formula to the elderly woman, looking more like a housekeeper than a
servant, who opened the door to him.

“Christian name?”

“Margaret.”

Tommy spelt it, but the other interrupted him.

“No, _g u e_.”

“Oh, Marguerite; French way, I see.” He paused, then plunged boldly. “We
had her down as Rita Vandemeyer, but I suppose that’s incorrect?”

“She’s mostly called that, sir, but Marguerite’s her name.”

“Thank you. That’s all. Good morning.”

Hardly able to contain his excitement, Tommy hurried down the stairs.
Tuppence was waiting at the angle of the turn.

“You heard?”

“Yes. Oh, _Tommy!_”

Tommy squeezed her arm sympathetically.

“I know, old thing. I feel the same.”

“It’s--it’s so lovely to think of things--and then for them really to
happen!” cried Tuppence enthusiastically.

Her hand was still in Tommy’s. They had reached the entrance hall. There
were footsteps on the stairs above them, and voices.

Suddenly, to Tommy’s complete surprise, Tuppence dragged him into the
little space by the side of the lift where the shadow was deepest.

“What the----”

“Hush!”

Two men came down the stairs and passed out through the entrance.
Tuppence’s hand closed tighter on Tommy’s arm.

“Quick--follow them. I daren’t. He might recognize me. I don’t know who
the other man is, but the bigger of the two was Whittington.”



CHAPTER VII. THE HOUSE IN SOHO

WHITTINGTON and his companion were walking at a good pace. Tommy started
in pursuit at once, and was in time to see them turn the corner of the
street. His vigorous strides soon enabled him to gain upon them, and by
the time he, in his turn, reached the corner the distance between them
was sensibly lessened. The small Mayfair streets were comparatively
deserted, and he judged it wise to content himself with keeping them in
sight.

The sport was a new one to him. Though familiar with the technicalities
from a course of novel reading, he had never before attempted to
“follow” anyone, and it appeared to him at once that, in actual
practice, the proceeding was fraught with difficulties. Supposing, for
instance, that they should suddenly hail a taxi? In books, you simply
leapt into another, promised the driver a sovereign--or its modern
equivalent--and there you were. In actual fact, Tommy foresaw that it
was extremely likely there would be no second taxi. Therefore he
would have to run. What happened in actual fact to a young man who ran
incessantly and persistently through the London streets? In a main road
he might hope to create the illusion that he was merely running for a
bus. But in these obscure aristocratic byways he could not but feel that
an officious policeman might stop him to explain matters.

At this juncture in his thoughts a taxi with flag erect turned the
corner of the street ahead. Tommy held his breath. Would they hail it?

He drew a sigh of relief as they allowed it to pass unchallenged. Their
course was a zigzag one designed to bring them as quickly as possible
to Oxford Street. When at length they turned into it, proceeding in an
easterly direction, Tommy slightly increased his pace. Little by little
he gained upon them. On the crowded pavement there was little chance of
his attracting their notice, and he was anxious if possible to catch
a word or two of their conversation. In this he was completely
foiled; they spoke low and the din of the traffic drowned their voices
effectually.

Just before the Bond Street Tube station they crossed the road, Tommy,
unperceived, faithfully at their heels, and entered the big Lyons’.
There they went up to the first floor, and sat at a small table in the
window. It was late, and the place was thinning out. Tommy took a seat
at the table next to them, sitting directly behind Whittington in case
of recognition. On the other hand, he had a full view of the second man
and studied him attentively. He was fair, with a weak, unpleasant face,
and Tommy put him down as being either a Russian or a Pole. He was
probably about fifty years of age, his shoulders cringed a little as he
talked, and his eyes, small and crafty, shifted unceasingly.

Having already lunched heartily, Tommy contented himself with ordering
a Welsh rarebit and a cup of coffee. Whittington ordered a substantial
lunch for himself and his companion; then, as the waitress withdrew, he
moved his chair a little closer to the table and began to talk earnestly
in a low voice. The other man joined in. Listen as he would, Tommy could
only catch a word here and there; but the gist of it seemed to be some
directions or orders which the big man was impressing on his companion,
and with which the latter seemed from time to time to disagree.
Whittington addressed the other as Boris.

Tommy caught the word “Ireland” several times, also “propaganda,” but
of Jane Finn there was no mention. Suddenly, in a lull in the clatter of
the room, he got one phrase entire. Whittington was speaking. “Ah, but
you don’t know Flossie. She’s a marvel. An archbishop would swear she
was his own mother. She gets the voice right every time, and that’s
really the principal thing.”

Tommy did not hear Boris’s reply, but in response to it Whittington said
something that sounded like: “Of course--only in an emergency....”

Then he lost the thread again. But presently the phrases became distinct
again whether because the other two had insensibly raised their voices,
or because Tommy’s ears were getting more attuned, he could not tell.
But two words certainly had a most stimulating effect upon the listener.
They were uttered by Boris and they were: “Mr. Brown.”

Whittington seemed to remonstrate with him, but he merely laughed.

“Why not, my friend? It is a name most respectable--most common. Did
he not choose it for that reason? Ah, I should like to meet him--Mr.
Brown.”

There was a steely ring in Whittington’s voice as he replied:

“Who knows? You may have met him already.”

“Bah!” retorted the other. “That is children’s talk--a fable for the
police. Do you know what I say to myself sometimes? That he is a fable
invented by the Inner Ring, a bogy to frighten us with. It might be so.”

“And it might not.”

“I wonder ... or is it indeed true that he is with us and amongst us,
unknown to all but a chosen few? If so, he keeps his secret well. And
the idea is a good one, yes. We never know. We look at each other--
_one of us is Mr. Brown_--which? He commands--but also he serves. Among
us--in the midst of us. And no one knows which he is....”

With an effort the Russian shook off the vagary of his fancy. He looked
at his watch.

“Yes,” said Whittington. “We might as well go.”

He called the waitress and asked for his bill. Tommy did likewise, and a
few moments later was following the two men down the stairs.

Outside, Whittington hailed a taxi, and directed the driver to go to
Waterloo.

Taxis were plentiful here, and before Whittington’s had driven off
another was drawing up to the curb in obedience to Tommy’s peremptory
hand.

“Follow that other taxi,” directed the young man. “Don’t lose it.”

The elderly chauffeur showed no interest. He merely grunted and jerked
down his flag. The drive was uneventful. Tommy’s taxi came to rest at
the departure platform just after Whittington’s. Tommy was behind him at
the booking-office. He took a first-class single ticket to Bournemouth,
Tommy did the same. As he emerged, Boris remarked, glancing up at the
clock: “You are early. You have nearly half an hour.”

Boris’s words had aroused a new train of thought in Tommy’s mind.
Clearly Whittington was making the journey alone, while the other
remained in London. Therefore he was left with a choice as to which he
would follow. Obviously, he could not follow both of them unless----
Like Boris, he glanced up at the clock, and then to the announcement
board of the trains. The Bournemouth train left at 3.30. It was now ten
past. Whittington and Boris were walking up and down by the bookstall.
He gave one doubtful look at them, then hurried into an adjacent
telephone box. He dared not waste time in trying to get hold of
Tuppence. In all probability she was still in the neighbourhood of South
Audley Mansions. But there remained another ally. He rang up the _Ritz_
and asked for Julius Hersheimmer. There was a click and a buzz. Oh, if
only the young American was in his room! There was another click, and
then “Hello” in unmistakable accents came over the wire.

“That you, Hersheimmer? Beresford speaking. I’m at Waterloo. I’ve
followed Whittington and another man here. No time to explain.
Whittington’s off to Bournemouth by the 3.30. Can you get there by
then?”

The reply was reassuring.

“Sure. I’ll hustle.”

The telephone rang off. Tommy put back the receiver with a sigh of
relief. His opinion of Julius’s power of hustling was high. He felt
instinctively that the American would arrive in time.

Whittington and Boris were still where he had left them. If Boris
remained to see his friend off, all was well. Then Tommy fingered his
pocket thoughtfully. In spite of the carte blanche assured to him, he
had not yet acquired the habit of going about with any considerable sum
of money on him. The taking of the first-class ticket to Bournemouth
had left him with only a few shillings in his pocket. It was to be hoped
that Julius would arrive better provided.

In the meantime, the minutes were creeping by: 3.15, 3.20, 3.25, 3.27.
Supposing Julius did not get there in time. 3.29.... Doors were banging.
Tommy felt cold waves of despair pass over him. Then a hand fell on his
shoulder.

“Here I am, son. Your British traffic beats description! Put me wise to
the crooks right away.”

“That’s Whittington--there, getting in now, that big dark man. The other
is the foreign chap he’s talking to.”

“I’m on to them. Which of the two is my bird?”

Tommy had thought out this question.

“Got any money with you?”

Julius shook his head, and Tommy’s face fell.

“I guess I haven’t more than three or four hundred dollars with me at
the moment,” explained the American.

Tommy gave a faint whoop of relief.

“Oh, Lord, you millionaires! You don’t talk the same language! Climb
aboard the lugger. Here’s your ticket. Whittington’s your man.”

“Me for Whittington!” said Julius darkly. The train was just starting
as he swung himself aboard. “So long, Tommy.” The train slid out of the
station.

Tommy drew a deep breath. The man Boris was coming along the platform
towards him. Tommy allowed him to pass and then took up the chase once
more.

From Waterloo Boris took the tube as far as Piccadilly Circus. Then he
walked up Shaftesbury Avenue, finally turning off into the maze of mean
streets round Soho. Tommy followed him at a judicious distance.

They reached at length a small dilapidated square. The houses there had
a sinister air in the midst of their dirt and decay. Boris looked round,
and Tommy drew back into the shelter of a friendly porch. The place was
almost deserted. It was a cul-de-sac, and consequently no traffic passed
that way. The stealthy way the other had looked round stimulated Tommy’s
imagination. From the shelter of the doorway he watched him go up the
steps of a particularly evil-looking house and rap sharply, with a
peculiar rhythm, on the door. It was opened promptly, he said a word or
two to the doorkeeper, then passed inside. The door was shut to again.

It was at this juncture that Tommy lost his head. What he ought to have
done, what any sane man would have done, was to remain patiently where
he was and wait for his man to come out again. What he did do was
entirely foreign to the sober common sense which was, as a rule, his
leading characteristic. Something, as he expressed it, seemed to snap in
his brain. Without a moment’s pause for reflection he, too, went up the
steps, and reproduced as far as he was able the peculiar knock.

The door swung open with the same promptness as before. A
villainous-faced man with close-cropped hair stood in the doorway.

“Well?” he grunted.

It was at that moment that the full realization of his folly began to
come home to Tommy. But he dared not hesitate. He seized at the first
words that came into his mind.

“Mr. Brown?” he said.

To his surprise the man stood aside.

“Upstairs,” he said, jerking his thumb over his shoulder, “second door
on your left.”



CHAPTER VIII. THE ADVENTURES OF TOMMY

TAKEN aback though he was by the man’s words, Tommy did not hesitate.
If audacity had successfully carried him so far, it was to be hoped
it would carry him yet farther. He quietly passed into the house and
mounted the ramshackle staircase. Everything in the house was filthy
beyond words. The grimy paper, of a pattern now indistinguishable,
hung in loose festoons from the wall. In every angle was a grey mass of
cobweb.

Tommy proceeded leisurely. By the time he reached the bend of the
staircase, he had heard the man below disappear into a back room.
Clearly no suspicion attached to him as yet. To come to the house and
ask for “Mr. Brown” appeared indeed to be a reasonable and natural
proceeding.

At the top of the stairs Tommy halted to consider his next move. In
front of him ran a narrow passage, with doors opening on either side of
it. From the one nearest him on the left came a low murmur of voices.
It was this room which he had been directed to enter. But what held
his glance fascinated was a small recess immediately on his right,
half concealed by a torn velvet curtain. It was directly opposite the
left-handed door and, owing to its angle, it also commanded a good view
of the upper part of the staircase. As a hiding-place for one or, at a
pinch, two men, it was ideal, being about two feet deep and three feet
wide. It attracted Tommy mightily. He thought things over in his usual
slow and steady way, deciding that the mention of “Mr. Brown” was not a
request for an individual, but in all probability a password used by
the gang. His lucky use of it had gained him admission. So far he had
aroused no suspicion. But he must decide quickly on his next step.

Suppose he were boldly to enter the room on the left of the passage.
Would the mere fact of his having been admitted to the house be
sufficient? Perhaps a further password would be required, or, at any
rate, some proof of identity. The doorkeeper clearly did not know all
the members of the gang by sight, but it might be different upstairs.
On the whole it seemed to him that luck had served him very well so far,
but that there was such a thing as trusting it too far. To enter
that room was a colossal risk. He could not hope to sustain his part
indefinitely; sooner or later he was almost bound to betray himself, and
then he would have thrown away a vital chance in mere foolhardiness.

A repetition of the signal knock sounded on the door below, and Tommy,
his mind made up, slipped quickly into the recess, and cautiously drew
the curtain farther across so that it shielded him completely from
sight. There were several rents and slits in the ancient material which
afforded him a good view. He would watch events, and any time he chose
could, after all, join the assembly, modelling his behaviour on that of
the new arrival.

The man who came up the staircase with a furtive, soft-footed tread was
quite unknown to Tommy. He was obviously of the very dregs of society.
The low beetling brows, and the criminal jaw, the bestiality of the
whole countenance were new to the young man, though he was a type that
Scotland Yard would have recognized at a glance.

The man passed the recess, breathing heavily as he went. He stopped at
the door opposite, and gave a repetition of the signal knock. A voice
inside called out something, and the man opened the door and passed in,
affording Tommy a momentary glimpse of the room inside. He thought there
must be about four or five people seated round a long table that took up
most of the space, but his attention was caught and held by a tall man
with close-cropped hair and a short, pointed, naval-looking beard,
who sat at the head of the table with papers in front of him. As the
new-comer entered he glanced up, and with a correct, but curiously
precise enunciation, which attracted Tommy’s notice, he asked:

“Your number, comrade?”

“Fourteen, gov’nor,” replied the other hoarsely.

“Correct.”

The door shut again.

“If that isn’t a Hun, I’m a Dutchman!” said Tommy to himself. “And
running the show darned systematically too--as they always do. Lucky I
didn’t roll in. I’d have given the wrong number, and there would have
been the deuce to pay. No, this is the place for me. Hullo, here’s
another knock.”

This visitor proved to be of an entirely different type to the last.
Tommy recognized in him an Irish Sinn Feiner. Certainly Mr. Brown’s
organization was a far-reaching concern. The common criminal, the
well-bred Irish gentleman, the pale Russian, and the efficient German
master of the ceremonies! Truly a strange and sinister gathering! Who
was this man who held in his finger these curiously variegated links of
an unknown chain?

In this case, the procedure was exactly the same. The signal knock, the
demand for a number, and the reply “Correct.”

Two knocks followed in quick succession on the door below. The first man
was quite unknown to Tommy, who put him down as a city clerk. A quiet,
intelligent-looking man, rather shabbily dressed. The second was of the
working classes, and his face was vaguely familiar to the young man.

Three minutes later came another, a man of commanding appearance,
exquisitely dressed, and evidently well born. His face, again, was not
unknown to the watcher, though he could not for the moment put a name to
it.

After his arrival there was a long wait. In fact Tommy concluded that
the gathering was now complete, and was just cautiously creeping out
from his hiding-place, when another knock sent him scuttling back to
cover.

This last-comer came up the stairs so quietly that he was almost abreast
of Tommy before the young man had realized his presence.

He was a small man, very pale, with a gentle almost womanish air. The
angle of the cheek-bones hinted at his Slavonic ancestry, otherwise
there was nothing to indicate his nationality. As he passed the recess,
he turned his head slowly. The strange light eyes seemed to burn through
the curtain; Tommy could hardly believe that the man did not know he was
there and in spite of himself he shivered. He was no more fanciful than
the majority of young Englishmen, but he could not rid himself of the
impression that some unusually potent force emanated from the man. The
creature reminded him of a venomous snake.

A moment later his impression was proved correct. The new-comer knocked
on the door as all had done, but his reception was very different. The
bearded man rose to his feet, and all the others followed suit. The
German came forward and shook hands. His heels clicked together.

“We are honoured,” he said. “We are greatly honoured. I much feared that
it would be impossible.”

The other answered in a low voice that had a kind of hiss in it:

“There were difficulties. It will not be possible again, I fear. But one
meeting is essential--to define my policy. I can do nothing without--Mr.
Brown. He is here?”

The change in the German’s voice was audible as he replied with slight
hesitation:

“We have received a message. It is impossible for him to be present
in person.” He stopped, giving a curious impression of having left the
sentence unfinished.

A very slow smile overspread the face of the other. He looked round at a
circle of uneasy faces.

“Ah! I understand. I have read of his methods. He works in the dark and
trusts no one. But, all the same, it is possible that he is among us
now....” He looked round him again, and again that expression of fear
swept over the group. Each man seemed eyeing his neighbour doubtfully.

The Russian tapped his cheek.

“So be it. Let us proceed.”

The German seemed to pull himself together. He indicated the place he
had been occupying at the head of the table. The Russian demurred, but
the other insisted.

“It is the only possible place,” he said, “for--Number One. Perhaps
Number Fourteen will shut the door?”

In another moment Tommy was once more confronting bare wooden panels,
and the voices within had sunk once more to a mere undistinguishable
murmur. Tommy became restive. The conversation he had overheard had
stimulated his curiosity. He felt that, by hook or by crook, he must
hear more.

There was no sound from below, and it did not seem likely that the
doorkeeper would come upstairs. After listening intently for a minute or
two, he put his head round the curtain. The passage was deserted. Tommy
bent down and removed his shoes, then, leaving them behind the curtain,
he walked gingerly out on his stockinged feet, and kneeling down by
the closed door he laid his ear cautiously to the crack. To his intense
annoyance he could distinguish little more; just a chance word here and
there if a voice was raised, which merely served to whet his curiosity
still farther.

He eyed the handle of the door tentatively. Could he turn it by degrees
so gently and imperceptibly that those in the room would notice nothing?
He decided that with great care it could be done. Very slowly, a
fraction of an inch at a time, he moved it round, holding his breath in
his excessive care. A little more--a little more still--would it never
be finished? Ah! at last it would turn no farther.

He stayed so for a minute or two, then drew a deep breath, and pressed
it ever so slightly inward. The door did not budge. Tommy was annoyed.
If he had to use too much force, it would almost certainly creak.
He waited until the voices rose a little, then he tried again. Still
nothing happened. He increased the pressure. Had the beastly thing
stuck? Finally, in desperation, he pushed with all his might. But the
door remained firm, and at last the truth dawned upon him. It was locked
or bolted on the inside.

For a moment or two Tommy’s indignation got the better of him.

“Well, I’m damned!” he said. “What a dirty trick!”

As his indignation cooled, he prepared to face the situation. Clearly
the first thing to be done was to restore the handle to its original
position. If he let it go suddenly, the men inside would be almost
certain to notice it, so, with the same infinite pains, he reversed his
former tactics. All went well, and with a sigh of relief the young man
rose to his feet. There was a certain bulldog tenacity about Tommy that
made him slow to admit defeat. Checkmated for the moment, he was far
from abandoning the conflict. He still intended to hear what was going
on in the locked room. As one plan had failed, he must hunt about for
another.

He looked round him. A little farther along the passage on the left was
a second door. He slipped silently along to it. He listened for a moment
or two, then tried the handle. It yielded, and he slipped inside.

The room, which was untenanted, was furnished as a bedroom. Like
everything else in the house, the furniture was falling to pieces, and
the dirt was, if anything, more abundant.

But what interested Tommy was the thing he had hoped to find, a
communicating door between the two rooms, up on the left by the window.
Carefully closing the door into the passage behind him, he stepped
across to the other and examined it closely. The bolt was shot across
it. It was very rusty, and had clearly not been used for some time. By
gently wriggling it to and fro, Tommy managed to draw it back without
making too much noise. Then he repeated his former manœuvres with the
handle--this time with complete success. The door swung open--a crack,
a mere fraction, but enough for Tommy to hear what went on. There was a
velvet _portière_ on the inside of this door which prevented him from
seeing, but he was able to recognize the voices with a reasonable amount
of accuracy.

The Sinn Feiner was speaking. His rich Irish voice was unmistakable:

“That’s all very well. But more money is essential. No money--no
results!”

Another voice which Tommy rather thought was that of Boris replied:

“Will you guarantee that there _are_ results?”

“In a month from now--sooner or later as you wish--I will guarantee you
such a reign of terror in Ireland as shall shake the British Empire to
its foundations.”

There was a pause, and then came the soft, sibilant accents of Number
One:

“Good! You shall have the money. Boris, you will see to that.”

Boris asked a question:

“Via the Irish Americans, and Mr. Potter as usual?”

“I guess that’ll be all right!” said a new voice, with a transatlantic
intonation, “though I’d like to point out, here and now, that things
are getting a mite difficult. There’s not the sympathy there was, and
a growing disposition to let the Irish settle their own affairs without
interference from America.”

Tommy felt that Boris had shrugged his shoulders as he answered:

“Does that matter, since the money only nominally comes from the
States?”

“The chief difficulty is the landing of the ammunition,” said the Sinn
Feiner. “The money is conveyed in easily enough--thanks to our colleague
here.”

Another voice, which Tommy fancied was that of the tall,
commanding-looking man whose face had seemed familiar to him, said:

“Think of the feelings of Belfast if they could hear you!”

“That is settled, then,” said the sibilant tones. “Now, in the matter
of the loan to an English newspaper, you have arranged the details
satisfactorily, Boris?”

“I think so.”

“That is good. An official denial from Moscow will be forthcoming if
necessary.”

There was a pause, and then the clear voice of the German broke the
silence:

“I am directed by--Mr. Brown, to place the summaries of the reports
from the different unions before you. That of the miners is most
satisfactory. We must hold back the railways. There may be trouble with
the A.S.E.”

For a long time there was a silence, broken only by the rustle of papers
and an occasional word of explanation from the German. Then Tommy heard
the light tap-tap of fingers, drumming on the table.

“And--the date, my friend?” said Number One.

“The 29th.”

The Russian seemed to consider:

“That is rather soon.”

“I know. But it was settled by the principal Labour leaders, and we
cannot seem to interfere too much. They must believe it to be entirely
their own show.”

The Russian laughed softly, as though amused.

“Yes, yes,” he said. “That is true. They must have no inkling that we
are using them for our own ends. They are honest men--and that is their
value to us. It is curious--but you cannot make a revolution without
honest men. The instinct of the populace is infallible.” He paused, and
then repeated, as though the phrase pleased him: “Every revolution has
had its honest men. They are soon disposed of afterwards.”

There was a sinister note in his voice.

The German resumed:

“Clymes must go. He is too far-seeing. Number Fourteen will see to
that.”

There was a hoarse murmur.

“That’s all right, gov’nor.” And then after a moment or two: “Suppose
I’m nabbed.”

“You will have the best legal talent to defend you,” replied the
German quietly. “But in any case you will wear gloves fitted with the
finger-prints of a notorious housebreaker. You have little to fear.”

“Oh, I ain’t afraid, gov’nor. All for the good of the cause. The streets
is going to run with blood, so they say.” He spoke with a grim relish.
“Dreams of it, sometimes, I does. And diamonds and pearls rolling about
in the gutter for anyone to pick up!”

Tommy heard a chair shifted. Then Number One spoke:

“Then all is arranged. We are assured of success?”

“I--think so.” But the German spoke with less than his usual confidence.

Number One’s voice held suddenly a dangerous quality:

“What has gone wrong?”

“Nothing; but----”

“But what?”

“The Labour leaders. Without them, as you say, we can do nothing. If
they do not declare a general strike on the 29th----”

“Why should they not?”

“As you’ve said, they’re honest. And, in spite of everything we’ve
done to discredit the Government in their eyes, I’m not sure that they
haven’t got a sneaking faith and belief in it.”

“But----”

“I know. They abuse it unceasingly. But, on the whole, public opinion
swings to the side of the Government. They will not go against it.”

Again the Russian’s fingers drummed on the table.

“To the point, my friend. I was given to understand that there was a
certain document in existence which assured success.”

“That is so. If that document were placed before the leaders, the result
would be immediate. They would publish it broadcast throughout England,
and declare for the revolution without a moment’s hesitation. The
Government would be broken finally and completely.”

“Then what more do you want?”

“The document itself,” said the German bluntly.

“Ah! It is not in your possession? But you know where it is?”

“No.”

“Does anyone know where it is?”

“One person--perhaps. And we are not sure of that even.”

“Who is this person?”

“A girl.”

Tommy held his breath.

“A girl?” The Russian’s voice rose contemptuously. “And you have not
made her speak? In Russia we have ways of making a girl talk.”

“This case is different,” said the German sullenly.

“How--different?” He paused a moment, then went on: “Where is the girl
now?”

“The girl?”

“Yes.”

“She is----”

But Tommy heard no more. A crashing blow descended on his head, and all
was darkness.



CHAPTER IX. TUPPENCE ENTERS DOMESTIC SERVICE

WHEN Tommy set forth on the trail of the two men, it took all Tuppence’s
self-command to refrain from accompanying him. However, she contained
herself as best she might, consoled by the reflection that her reasoning
had been justified by events. The two men had undoubtedly come from the
second floor flat, and that one slender thread of the name “Rita” had
set the Young Adventurers once more upon the track of the abductors of
Jane Finn.

The question was what to do next? Tuppence hated letting the grass grow
under her feet. Tommy was amply employed, and debarred from joining him
in the chase, the girl felt at a loose end. She retraced her steps
to the entrance hall of the mansions. It was now tenanted by a small
lift-boy, who was polishing brass fittings, and whistling the latest air
with a good deal of vigour and a reasonable amount of accuracy.

He glanced round at Tuppence’s entry. There was a certain amount of the
gamin element in the girl, at all events she invariably got on well
with small boys. A sympathetic bond seemed instantly to be formed. She
reflected that an ally in the enemy’s camp, so to speak, was not to be
despised.

“Well, William,” she remarked cheerfully, in the best approved
hospital-early-morning style, “getting a good shine up?”

The boy grinned responsively.

“Albert, miss,” he corrected.

“Albert be it,” said Tuppence. She glanced mysteriously round the hall.
The effect was purposely a broad one in case Albert should miss it. She
leaned towards the boy and dropped her voice: “I want a word with you,
Albert.”

Albert ceased operations on the fittings and opened his mouth slightly.

“Look! Do you know what this is?” With a dramatic gesture she flung back
the left side of her coat and exposed a small enamelled badge. It was
extremely unlikely that Albert would have any knowledge of it--indeed,
it would have been fatal for Tuppence’s plans, since the badge in
question was the device of a local training corps originated by the
archdeacon in the early days of the war. Its presence in Tuppence’s coat
was due to the fact that she had used it for pinning in some flowers a
day or two before. But Tuppence had sharp eyes, and had noted the corner
of a threepenny detective novel protruding from Albert’s pocket, and the
immediate enlargement of his eyes told her that her tactics were good,
and that the fish would rise to the bait.

“American Detective Force!” she hissed.

Albert fell for it.

“Lord!” he murmured ecstatically.

Tuppence nodded at him with the air of one who has established a
thorough understanding.

“Know who I’m after?” she inquired genially.

Albert, still round-eyed, demanded breathlessly:

“One of the flats?”

Tuppence nodded and jerked a thumb up the stairs.

“No. 20. Calls herself Vandemeyer. Vandemeyer! Ha! ha!”

Albert’s hand stole to his pocket.

“A crook?” he queried eagerly.

“A crook? I should say so. Ready Rita they call her in the States.”

“Ready Rita,” repeated Albert deliriously. “Oh, ain’t it just like the
pictures!”

It was. Tuppence was a great frequenter of the cinema.

“Annie always said as how she was a bad lot,” continued the boy.

“Who’s Annie?” inquired Tuppence idly.

“‘Ouse-parlourmaid. She’s leaving to-day. Many’s the time Annie’s said
to me: ‘Mark my words, Albert, I wouldn’t wonder if the police was to
come after her one of these days.’ Just like that. But she’s a stunner
to look at, ain’t she?”

“She’s some peach,” allowed Tuppence carelessly. “Finds it useful in her
lay-out, you bet. Has she been wearing any of the emeralds, by the way?”

“Emeralds? Them’s the green stones, isn’t they?”

Tuppence nodded.

“That’s what we’re after her for. You know old man Rysdale?”

Albert shook his head.

“Peter B. Rysdale, the oil king?”

“It seems sort of familiar to me.”

“The sparklers belonged to him. Finest collection of emeralds in the
world. Worth a million dollars!”

“Lumme!” came ecstatically from Albert. “It sounds more like the
pictures every minute.”

Tuppence smiled, gratified at the success of her efforts.

“We haven’t exactly proved it yet. But we’re after her. And”--she
produced a long-drawn-out wink--“I guess she won’t get away with the
goods this time.”

Albert uttered another ejaculation indicative of delight.

“Mind you, sonny, not a word of this,” said Tuppence suddenly. “I guess
I oughtn’t to have put you wise, but in the States we know a real smart
lad when we see one.”

“I’ll not breathe a word,” protested Albert eagerly. “Ain’t there
anything I could do? A bit of shadowing, maybe, or such like?”

Tuppence affected to consider, then shook her head.

“Not at the moment, but I’ll bear you in mind, son. What’s this about
the girl you say is leaving?”

“Annie? Regular turn up, they ‘ad. As Annie said, servants is some one
nowadays, and to be treated accordingly, and, what with her passing the
word round, she won’t find it so easy to get another.”

“Won’t she?” said Tuppence thoughtfully. “I wonder----”

An idea was dawning in her brain. She thought a minute or two, then
tapped Albert on the shoulder.

“See here, son, my brain’s got busy. How would it be if you mentioned
that you’d got a young cousin, or a friend of yours had, that might suit
the place. You get me?”

“I’m there,” said Albert instantly. “You leave it to me, miss, and I’ll
fix the whole thing up in two ticks.”

“Some lad!” commented Tuppence, with a nod of approval. “You might say
that the young woman could come in right away. You let me know, and if
it’s O.K. I’ll be round to-morrow at eleven o’clock.”

“Where am I to let you know to?”

“_Ritz_,” replied Tuppence laconically. “Name of Cowley.”

Albert eyed her enviously.

“It must be a good job, this tec business.”

“It sure is,” drawled Tuppence, “especially when old man Rysdale backs
the bill. But don’t fret, son. If this goes well, you shall come in on
the ground floor.”

With which promise she took leave of her new ally, and walked briskly
away from South Audley Mansions, well pleased with her morning’s work.

But there was no time to be lost. She went straight back to the _Ritz_
and wrote a few brief words to Mr. Carter. Having dispatched this, and
Tommy not having yet returned--which did not surprise her--she started
off on a shopping expedition which, with an interval for tea and
assorted creamy cakes, occupied her until well after six o’clock, and
she returned to the hotel jaded, but satisfied with her purchases.
Starting with a cheap clothing store, and passing through one or two
second-hand establishments, she had finished the day at a well-known
hairdresser’s. Now, in the seclusion of her bedroom, she unwrapped
that final purchase. Five minutes later she smiled contentedly at her
reflection in the glass. With an actress’s pencil she had slightly
altered the line of her eyebrows, and that, taken in conjunction with
the new luxuriant growth of fair hair above, so changed her appearance
that she felt confident that even if she came face to face with
Whittington he would not recognize her. She would wear elevators in her
shoes, and the cap and apron would be an even more valuable disguise.
From hospital experience she knew only too well that a nurse out of
uniform is frequently unrecognized by her patients.

“Yes,” said Tuppence aloud, nodding at the pert reflection in the glass,
“you’ll do.” She then resumed her normal appearance.

Dinner was a solitary meal. Tuppence was rather surprised at Tommy’s
non-return. Julius, too, was absent--but that to the girl’s mind was
more easily explained. His “hustling” activities were not confined
to London, and his abrupt appearances and disappearances were fully
accepted by the Young Adventurers as part of the day’s work. It
was quite on the cards that Julius P. Hersheimmer had left for
Constantinople at a moment’s notice if he fancied that a clue to his
cousin’s disappearance was to be found there. The energetic young
man had succeeded in making the lives of several Scotland Yard men
unbearable to them, and the telephone girls at the Admiralty had learned
to know and dread the familiar “Hullo!” He had spent three hours in
Paris hustling the Prefecture, and had returned from there imbued with
the idea, possibly inspired by a weary French official, that the true
clue to the mystery was to be found in Ireland.

“I dare say he’s dashed off there now,” thought Tuppence. “All very
well, but this is very dull for _me!_ Here I am bursting with news, and
absolutely no one to tell it to! Tommy might have wired, or something. I
wonder where he is. Anyway, he can’t have ‘lost the trail’ as they say.
That reminds me----” And Miss Cowley broke off in her meditations, and
summoned a small boy.

Ten minutes later the lady was ensconced comfortably on her bed,
smoking cigarettes and deep in the perusal of _Garnaby Williams, the Boy
Detective_, which, with other threepenny works of lurid fiction, she had
sent out to purchase. She felt, and rightly, that before the strain
of attempting further intercourse with Albert, it would be as well to
fortify herself with a good supply of local colour.

The morning brought a note from Mr. Carter:

“DEAR MISS TUPPENCE,

“You have made a splendid start, and I congratulate you. I feel, though,
that I should like to point out to you once more the risks you are
running, especially if you pursue the course you indicate. Those people
are absolutely desperate and incapable of either mercy or pity. I feel
that you probably underestimate the danger, and therefore warn you
again that I can promise you no protection. You have given us valuable
information, and if you choose to withdraw now no one could blame you.
At any rate, think the matter over well before you decide.

“If, in spite of my warnings, you make up your mind to go through with
it, you will find everything arranged. You have lived for two years with
Miss Dufferin, The Parsonage, Llanelly, and Mrs. Vandemeyer can apply to
her for a reference.

“May I be permitted a word or two of advice? Stick as near to the truth
as possible--it minimizes the danger of ‘slips.’ I suggest that you
should represent yourself to be what you are, a former V.A.D., who has
chosen domestic service as a profession. There are many such at the
present time. That explains away any incongruities of voice or manner
which otherwise might awaken suspicion.

“Whichever way you decide, good luck to you.

“Your sincere friend,

“MR. CARTER.”

Tuppence’s spirits rose mercurially. Mr. Carter’s warnings passed
unheeded. The young lady had far too much confidence in herself to pay
any heed to them.

With some reluctance she abandoned the interesting part she had sketched
out for herself. Although she had no doubts of her own powers to sustain
a role indefinitely, she had too much common sense not to recognize the
force of Mr. Carter’s arguments.

There was still no word or message from Tommy, but the morning post
brought a somewhat dirty postcard with the words: “It’s O.K.” scrawled
upon it.

At ten-thirty Tuppence surveyed with pride a slightly battered tin trunk
containing her new possessions. It was artistically corded. It was with
a slight blush that she rang the bell and ordered it to be placed in a
taxi. She drove to Paddington, and left the box in the cloak room.
She then repaired with a handbag to the fastnesses of the ladies’
waiting-room. Ten minutes later a metamorphosed Tuppence walked demurely
out of the station and entered a bus.

It was a few minutes past eleven when Tuppence again entered the hall
of South Audley Mansions. Albert was on the look-out, attending to his
duties in a somewhat desultory fashion. He did not immediately recognize
Tuppence. When he did, his admiration was unbounded.

“Blest if I’d have known you! That rig-out’s top-hole.”

“Glad you like it, Albert,” replied Tuppence modestly. “By the way, am I
your cousin, or am I not?”

“Your voice too,” cried the delighted boy. “It’s as English as anything!
No, I said as a friend of mine knew a young gal. Annie wasn’t best
pleased. She’s stopped on till to-day--to oblige, _she_ said, but really
it’s so as to put you against the place.”

“Nice girl,” said Tuppence.

Albert suspected no irony.

“She’s style about her, and keeps her silver a treat--but, my word,
ain’t she got a temper. Are you going up now, miss? Step inside the
lift. No. 20 did you say?” And he winked.

Tuppence quelled him with a stern glance, and stepped inside.

As she rang the bell of No. 20 she was conscious of Albert’s eyes slowly
descending beneath the level of the floor.

A smart young woman opened the door.

“I’ve come about the place,” said Tuppence.

“It’s a rotten place,” said the young woman without hesitation. “Regular
old cat--always interfering. Accused me of tampering with her letters.
Me! The flap was half undone anyway. There’s never anything in the
waste-paper basket--she burns everything. She’s a wrong ‘un, that’s what
she is. Swell clothes, but no class. Cook knows something about her--but
she won’t tell--scared to death of her. And suspicious! She’s on to you
in a minute if you as much as speak to a fellow. I can tell you----”

But what more Annie could tell, Tuppence was never destined to learn,
for at that moment a clear voice with a peculiarly steely ring to it
called:

“Annie!”

The smart young woman jumped as if she had been shot.

“Yes, ma’am.”

“Who are you talking to?”

“It’s a young woman about the situation, ma’am.”

“Show her in then. At once.”

“Yes, ma’am.”

Tuppence was ushered into a room on the right of the long passage. A
woman was standing by the fireplace. She was no longer in her first
youth, and the beauty she undeniably possessed was hardened and
coarsened. In her youth she must have been dazzling. Her pale gold hair,
owing a slight assistance to art, was coiled low on her neck, her eyes,
of a piercing electric blue, seemed to possess a faculty of boring into
the very soul of the person she was looking at. Her exquisite figure was
enhanced by a wonderful gown of indigo charmeuse. And yet, despite her
swaying grace, and the almost ethereal beauty of her face, you felt
instinctively the presence of something hard and menacing, a kind of
metallic strength that found expression in the tones of her voice and in
that gimlet-like quality of her eyes.

For the first time Tuppence felt afraid. She had not feared Whittington,
but this woman was different. As if fascinated, she watched the long
cruel line of the red curving mouth, and again she felt that sensation
of panic pass over her. Her usual self-confidence deserted her. Vaguely
she felt that deceiving this woman would be very different to deceiving
Whittington. Mr. Carter’s warning recurred to her mind. Here, indeed,
she might expect no mercy.

Fighting down that instinct of panic which urged her to turn tail and
run without further delay, Tuppence returned the lady’s gaze firmly and
respectfully.

As though that first scrutiny had been satisfactory, Mrs. Vandemeyer
motioned to a chair.

“You can sit down. How did you hear I wanted a house-parlourmaid?”

“Through a friend who knows the lift boy here. He thought the place
might suit me.”

Again that basilisk glance seemed to pierce her through.

“You speak like an educated girl?”

Glibly enough, Tuppence ran through her imaginary career on the lines
suggested by Mr. Carter. It seemed to her, as she did so, that the
tension of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s attitude relaxed.

“I see,” she remarked at length. “Is there anyone I can write to for a
reference?”

“I lived last with a Miss Dufferin, The Parsonage, Llanelly. I was with
her two years.”

“And then you thought you would get more money by coming to London,
I suppose? Well, it doesn’t matter to me. I will give you
£50--£60--whatever you want. You can come in at once?”

“Yes, ma’am. To-day, if you like. My box is at Paddington.”

“Go and fetch it in a taxi, then. It’s an easy place. I am out a good
deal. By the way, what’s your name?”

“Prudence Cooper, ma’am.”

“Very well, Prudence. Go away and fetch your box. I shall be out to
lunch. The cook will show you where everything is.”

“Thank you, ma’am.”

Tuppence withdrew. The smart Annie was not in evidence. In the hall
below a magnificent hall porter had relegated Albert to the background.
Tuppence did not even glance at him as she passed meekly out.

The adventure had begun, but she felt less elated than she had done
earlier in the morning. It crossed her mind that if the unknown Jane
Finn had fallen into the hands of Mrs. Vandemeyer, it was likely to have
gone hard with her.



CHAPTER X. ENTER SIR JAMES PEEL EDGERTON

TUPPENCE betrayed no awkwardness in her new duties. The daughters of the
archdeacon were well grounded in household tasks. They were also experts
in training a “raw girl,” the inevitable result being that the raw girl,
once trained, departed elsewhere where her newly acquired knowledge
commanded a more substantial remuneration than the archdeacon’s meagre
purse allowed.

Tuppence had therefore very little fear of proving inefficient. Mrs.
Vandemeyer’s cook puzzled her. She evidently went in deadly terror of
her mistress. The girl thought it probable that the other woman had some
hold over her. For the rest, she cooked like a _chef_, as Tuppence had
an opportunity of judging that evening. Mrs. Vandemeyer was expecting a
guest to dinner, and Tuppence accordingly laid the beautifully polished
table for two. She was a little exercised in her own mind as to this
visitor. It was highly possible that it might prove to be Whittington.
Although she felt fairly confident that he would not recognize her, yet
she would have been better pleased had the guest proved to be a total
stranger. However, there was nothing for it but to hope for the best.

At a few minutes past eight the front door bell rang, and Tuppence went
to answer it with some inward trepidation. She was relieved to see that
the visitor was the second of the two men whom Tommy had taken upon
himself to follow.

He gave his name as Count Stepanov. Tuppence announced him, and Mrs.
Vandemeyer rose from her seat on a low divan with a quick murmur of
pleasure.

“It is delightful to see you, Boris Ivanovitch,” she said.

“And you, madame!” He bowed low over her hand.

Tuppence returned to the kitchen.

“Count Stepanov, or some such,” she remarked, and affecting a frank and
unvarnished curiosity: “Who’s he?”

“A Russian gentleman, I believe.”

“Come here much?”

“Once in a while. What d’you want to know for?”

“Fancied he might be sweet on the missus, that’s all,” explained the
girl, adding with an appearance of sulkiness: “How you do take one up!”

“I’m not quite easy in my mind about the _soufflé_,” explained the
other.

“You know something,” thought Tuppence to herself, but aloud she only
said: “Going to dish up now? Right-o.”

Whilst waiting at table, Tuppence listened closely to all that was said.
She remembered that this was one of the men Tommy was shadowing when she
had last seen him. Already, although she would hardly admit it, she was
becoming uneasy about her partner. Where was he? Why had no word of any
kind come from him? She had arranged before leaving the _Ritz_ to have
all letters or messages sent on at once by special messenger to a small
stationer’s shop near at hand where Albert was to call in frequently.
True, it was only yesterday morning that she had parted from Tommy, and
she told herself that any anxiety on his behalf would be absurd. Still,
it was strange that he had sent no word of any kind.

But, listen as she might, the conversation presented no clue. Boris and
Mrs. Vandemeyer talked on purely indifferent subjects: plays they had
seen, new dances, and the latest society gossip. After dinner they
repaired to the small boudoir where Mrs. Vandemeyer, stretched on the
divan, looked more wickedly beautiful than ever. Tuppence brought in the
coffee and liqueurs and unwillingly retired. As she did so, she heard
Boris say:

“New, isn’t she?”

“She came in to-day. The other was a fiend. This girl seems all right.
She waits well.”

Tuppence lingered a moment longer by the door which she had carefully
neglected to close, and heard him say:

“Quite safe, I suppose?”

“Really, Boris, you are absurdly suspicious. I believe she’s the cousin
of the hall porter, or something of the kind. And nobody even dreams
that I have any connection with our--mutual friend, Mr. Brown.”

“For heaven’s sake, be careful, Rita. That door isn’t shut.”

“Well, shut it then,” laughed the woman.

Tuppence removed herself speedily.

She dared not absent herself longer from the back premises, but she
cleared away and washed up with a breathless speed acquired in hospital.
Then she slipped quietly back to the boudoir door. The cook, more
leisurely, was still busy in the kitchen and, if she missed the other,
would only suppose her to be turning down the beds.

Alas! The conversation inside was being carried on in too low a tone
to permit of her hearing anything of it. She dared not reopen the
door, however gently. Mrs. Vandemeyer was sitting almost facing it, and
Tuppence respected her mistress’s lynx-eyed powers of observation.

Nevertheless, she felt she would give a good deal to overhear what was
going on. Possibly, if anything unforeseen had happened, she might get
news of Tommy. For some moments she reflected desperately, then her
face brightened. She went quickly along the passage to Mrs. Vandemeyer’s
bedroom, which had long French windows leading on to a balcony that ran
the length of the flat. Slipping quickly through the window, Tuppence
crept noiselessly along till she reached the boudoir window. As she
had thought it stood a little ajar, and the voices within were plainly
audible.

Tuppence listened attentively, but there was no mention of anything
that could be twisted to apply to Tommy. Mrs. Vandemeyer and the Russian
seemed to be at variance over some matter, and finally the latter
exclaimed bitterly:

“With your persistent recklessness, you will end by ruining us!”

“Bah!” laughed the woman. “Notoriety of the right kind is the best way
of disarming suspicion. You will realize that one of these days--perhaps
sooner than you think!”

“In the meantime, you are going about everywhere with Peel Edgerton.
Not only is he, perhaps, the most celebrated K.C. in England, but his
special hobby is criminology! It is madness!”

“I know that his eloquence has saved untold men from the gallows,” said
Mrs. Vandemeyer calmly. “What of it? I may need his assistance in that
line myself some day. If so, how fortunate to have such a friend at
court--or perhaps it would be more to the point to say _in_ court.”

Boris got up and began striding up and down. He was very excited.

“You are a clever woman, Rita; but you are also a fool! Be guided by me,
and give up Peel Edgerton.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer shook her head gently.

“I think not.”

“You refuse?” There was an ugly ring in the Russian’s voice.

“I do.”

“Then, by Heaven,” snarled the Russian, “we will see----”

But Mrs. Vandemeyer also rose to her feet, her eyes flashing.

“You forget, Boris,” she said. “I am accountable to no one. I take my
orders only from--Mr. Brown.”

The other threw up his hands in despair.

“You are impossible,” he muttered. “Impossible! Already it may be too
late. They say Peel Edgerton can _smell_ a criminal! How do we know what
is at the bottom of his sudden interest in you? Perhaps even now his
suspicions are aroused. He guesses----”

Mrs. Vandemeyer eyed him scornfully.

“Reassure yourself, my dear Boris. He suspects nothing. With less than
your usual chivalry, you seem to forget that I am commonly accounted a
beautiful woman. I assure you that is all that interests Peel Edgerton.”

Boris shook his head doubtfully.

“He has studied crime as no other man in this kingdom has studied it. Do
you fancy that you can deceive him?”

Mrs. Vandemeyer’s eyes narrowed.

“If he is all that you say--it would amuse me to try!”

“Good heavens, Rita----”

“Besides,” added Mrs. Vandemeyer, “he is extremely rich. I am not one
who despises money. The ‘sinews of war,’ you know, Boris!”

“Money--money! That is always the danger with you, Rita. I believe you
would sell your soul for money. I believe----” He paused, then in a
low, sinister voice he said slowly: “Sometimes I believe that you would
sell-- _us!_”

Mrs. Vandemeyer smiled and shrugged her shoulders.

“The price, at any rate, would have to be enormous,” she said lightly.
“It would be beyond the power of anyone but a millionaire to pay.”

“Ah!” snarled the Russian. “You see, I was right!”

“My dear Boris, can you not take a joke?”

“Was it a joke?”

“Of course.”

“Then all I can say is that your ideas of humour are peculiar, my dear
Rita.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer smiled.

“Let us not quarrel, Boris. Touch the bell. We will have some drinks.”

Tuppence beat a hasty retreat. She paused a moment to survey herself in
Mrs. Vandemeyer’s long glass, and be sure that nothing was amiss with
her appearance. Then she answered the bell demurely.

The conversation that she had overheard, although interesting in that
it proved beyond doubt the complicity of both Rita and Boris, threw very
little light on the present preoccupations. The name of Jane Finn had
not even been mentioned.

The following morning a few brief words with Albert informed her that
nothing was waiting for her at the stationer’s. It seemed incredible
that Tommy, if all was well with him, should not send any word to her.
A cold hand seemed to close round her heart.... Supposing.... She choked
her fears down bravely. It was no good worrying. But she leapt at a
chance offered her by Mrs. Vandemeyer.

“What day do you usually go out, Prudence?”

“Friday’s my usual day, ma’am.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer lifted her eyebrows.

“And to-day is Friday! But I suppose you hardly wish to go out to-day,
as you only came yesterday.”

“I was thinking of asking you if I might, ma’am.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer looked at her a minute longer, and then smiled.

“I wish Count Stepanov could hear you. He made a suggestion about
you last night.” Her smile broadened, catlike. “Your request is
very--typical. I am satisfied. You do not understand all this--but
you can go out to-day. It makes no difference to me, as I shall not be
dining at home.”

“Thank you, ma’am.”

Tuppence felt a sensation of relief once she was out of the other’s
presence. Once again she admitted to herself that she was afraid,
horribly afraid, of the beautiful woman with the cruel eyes.

In the midst of a final desultory polishing of her silver, Tuppence was
disturbed by the ringing of the front door bell, and went to answer it.
This time the visitor was neither Whittington nor Boris, but a man of
striking appearance.

Just a shade over average height, he nevertheless conveyed the
impression of a big man. His face, clean-shaven and exquisitely mobile,
was stamped with an expression of power and force far beyond the
ordinary. Magnetism seemed to radiate from him.

Tuppence was undecided for the moment whether to put him down as an
actor or a lawyer, but her doubts were soon solved as he gave her his
name: Sir James Peel Edgerton.

She looked at him with renewed interest. This, then, was the famous K.C.
whose name was familiar all over England. She had heard it said that he
might one day be Prime Minister. He was known to have refused office in
the interests of his profession, preferring to remain a simple Member
for a Scotch constituency.

Tuppence went back to her pantry thoughtfully. The great man had
impressed her. She understood Boris’s agitation. Peel Edgerton would not
be an easy man to deceive.

In about a quarter of an hour the bell rang, and Tuppence repaired to
the hall to show the visitor out. He had given her a piercing glance
before. Now, as she handed him his hat and stick, she was conscious of
his eyes raking her through. As she opened the door and stood aside to
let him pass out, he stopped in the doorway.

“Not been doing this long, eh?”

Tuppence raised her eyes, astonished. She read in his glance kindliness,
and something else more difficult to fathom.

He nodded as though she had answered.

“V.A.D. and hard up, I suppose?”

“Did Mrs. Vandemeyer tell you that?” asked Tuppence suspiciously.

“No, child. The look of you told me. Good place here?”

“Very good, thank you, sir.”

“Ah, but there are plenty of good places nowadays. And a change does no
harm sometimes.”

“Do you mean----?” began Tuppence.

But Sir James was already on the topmost stair. He looked back with his
kindly, shrewd glance.

“Just a hint,” he said. “That’s all.”

Tuppence went back to the pantry more thoughtful than ever.



CHAPTER XI. JULIUS TELLS A STORY

DRESSED appropriately, Tuppence duly sallied forth for her “afternoon
out.” Albert was in temporary abeyance, but Tuppence went herself to the
stationer’s to make quite sure that nothing had come for her. Satisfied
on this point, she made her way to the _Ritz_. On inquiry she learnt
that Tommy had not yet returned. It was the answer she had expected, but
it was another nail in the coffin of her hopes. She resolved to appeal
to Mr. Carter, telling him when and where Tommy had started on his
quest, and asking him to do something to trace him. The prospect of
his aid revived her mercurial spirits, and she next inquired for Julius
Hersheimmer. The reply she got was to the effect that he had returned
about half an hour ago, but had gone out immediately.

Tuppence’s spirits revived still more. It would be something to see
Julius. Perhaps he could devise some plan for finding out what
had become of Tommy. She wrote her note to Mr. Carter in Julius’s
sitting-room, and was just addressing the envelope when the door burst
open.

“What the hell----” began Julius, but checked himself abruptly. “I beg
your pardon, Miss Tuppence. Those fools down at the office would have it
that Beresford wasn’t here any longer--hadn’t been here since Wednesday.
Is that so?”

Tuppence nodded.

“You don’t know where he is?” she asked faintly.

“I? How should I know? I haven’t had one darned word from him, though I
wired him yesterday morning.”

“I expect your wire’s at the office unopened.”

“But where is he?”

“I don’t know. I hoped you might.”

“I tell you I haven’t had one darned word from him since we parted at
the depot on Wednesday.”

“What depot?”

“Waterloo. Your London and South Western road.”

“Waterloo?” frowned Tuppence.

“Why, yes. Didn’t he tell you?”

“I haven’t seen him either,” replied Tuppence impatiently. “Go on about
Waterloo. What were you doing there?”

“He gave me a call. Over the phone. Told me to get a move on, and
hustle. Said he was trailing two crooks.”

“Oh!” said Tuppence, her eyes opening. “I see. Go on.”

“I hurried along right away. Beresford was there. He pointed out the
crooks. The big one was mine, the guy you bluffed. Tommy shoved a ticket
into my hand and told me to get aboard the cars. He was going to sleuth
the other crook.” Julius paused. “I thought for sure you’d know all
this.”

“Julius,” said Tuppence firmly, “stop walking up and down. It makes me
giddy. Sit down in that armchair, and tell me the whole story with as
few fancy turns of speech as possible.”

Mr. Hersheimmer obeyed.

“Sure,” he said. “Where shall I begin?”

“Where you left off. At Waterloo.”

“Well,” began Julius, “I got into one of your dear old-fashioned
first-class British compartments. The train was just off. First thing I
knew a guard came along and informed me mighty politely that I wasn’t
in a smoking-carriage. I handed him out half a dollar, and that settled
that. I did a bit of prospecting along the corridor to the next coach.
Whittington was there right enough. When I saw the skunk, with his big
sleek fat face, and thought of poor little Jane in his clutches, I felt
real mad that I hadn’t got a gun with me. I’d have tickled him up some.

“We got to Bournemouth all right. Whittington took a cab and gave the
name of an hotel. I did likewise, and we drove up within three minutes
of each other. He hired a room, and I hired one too. So far it was all
plain sailing. He hadn’t the remotest notion that anyone was on to him.
Well, he just sat around in the hotel lounge, reading the papers and so
on, till it was time for dinner. He didn’t hurry any over that either.

“I began to think that there was nothing doing, that he’d just come on
the trip for his health, but I remembered that he hadn’t changed for
dinner, though it was by way of being a slap-up hotel, so it seemed
likely enough that he’d be going out on his real business afterwards.

“Sure enough, about nine o’clock, so he did. Took a car across the
town--mighty pretty place by the way, I guess I’ll take Jane there for
a spell when I find her--and then paid it off and struck out along those
pine-woods on the top of the cliff. I was there too, you understand.
We walked, maybe, for half an hour. There’s a lot of villas all the way
along, but by degrees they seemed to get more and more thinned out, and
in the end we got to one that seemed the last of the bunch. Big house it
was, with a lot of piny grounds around it.

“It was a pretty black night, and the carriage drive up to the house was
dark as pitch. I could hear him ahead, though I couldn’t see him. I
had to walk carefully in case he might get on to it that he was being
followed. I turned a curve and I was just in time to see him ring the
bell and get admitted to the house. I just stopped where I was. It was
beginning to rain, and I was soon pretty near soaked through. Also, it
was almighty cold.

“Whittington didn’t come out again, and by and by I got kind of restive,
and began to mouch around. All the ground floor windows were shuttered
tight, but upstairs, on the first floor (it was a two-storied house) I
noticed a window with a light burning and the curtains not drawn.

“Now, just opposite to that window, there was a tree growing. It was
about thirty foot away from the house, maybe, and I sort of got it into
my head that, if I climbed up that tree, I’d very likely be able to see
into that room. Of course, I knew there was no reason why Whittington
should be in that room rather than in any other--less reason, in fact,
for the betting would be on his being in one of the reception-rooms
downstairs. But I guess I’d got the hump from standing so long in the
rain, and anything seemed better than going on doing nothing. So I
started up.

“It wasn’t so easy, by a long chalk! The rain had made the boughs mighty
slippery, and it was all I could do to keep a foothold, but bit by bit I
managed it, until at last there I was level with the window.

“But then I was disappointed. I was too far to the left. I could only
see sideways into the room. A bit of curtain, and a yard of wallpaper
was all I could command. Well, that wasn’t any manner of good to me, but
just as I was going to give it up, and climb down ignominiously, some
one inside moved and threw his shadow on my little bit of wall--and, by
gum, it was Whittington!

“After that, my blood was up. I’d just _got_ to get a look into that
room. It was up to me to figure out how. I noticed that there was a long
branch running out from the tree in the right direction. If I could only
swarm about half-way along it, the proposition would be solved. But it
was mighty uncertain whether it would bear my weight. I decided I’d
just got to risk that, and I started. Very cautiously, inch by inch, I
crawled along. The bough creaked and swayed in a nasty fashion, and it
didn’t do to think of the drop below, but at last I got safely to where
I wanted to be.

“The room was medium-sized, furnished in a kind of bare hygienic way.
There was a table with a lamp on it in the middle of the room, and
sitting at that table, facing towards me, was Whittington right enough.
He was talking to a woman dressed as a hospital nurse. She was sitting
with her back to me, so I couldn’t see her face. Although the blinds
were up, the window itself was shut, so I couldn’t catch a word of what
they said. Whittington seemed to be doing all the talking, and the nurse
just listened. Now and then she nodded, and sometimes she’d shake
her head, as though she were answering questions. He seemed very
emphatic--once or twice he beat with his fist on the table. The rain had
stopped now, and the sky was clearing in that sudden way it does.

“Presently, he seemed to get to the end of what he was saying. He got
up, and so did she. He looked towards the window and asked something--I
guess it was whether it was raining. Anyway, she came right across and
looked out. Just then the moon came out from behind the clouds. I
was scared the woman would catch sight of me, for I was full in the
moonlight. I tried to move back a bit. The jerk I gave was too much for
that rotten old branch. With an almighty crash, down it came, and Julius
P. Hersheimmer with it!”

“Oh, Julius,” breathed Tuppence, “how exciting! Go on.”

“Well, luckily for me, I pitched down into a good soft bed of earth--but
it put me out of action for the time, sure enough. The next thing I
knew, I was lying in bed with a hospital nurse (not Whittington’s one)
on one side of me, and a little black-bearded man with gold glasses,
and medical man written all over him, on the other. He rubbed his hands
together, and raised his eyebrows as I stared at him. ‘Ah!’ he said. ‘So
our young friend is coming round again. Capital. Capital.’

“I did the usual stunt. Said: ‘What’s happened?’ And ‘Where am I?’ But
I knew the answer to the last well enough. There’s no moss growing on
my brain. ‘I think that’ll do for the present, sister,’ said the little
man, and the nurse left the room in a sort of brisk well-trained way.
But I caught her handing me out a look of deep curiosity as she passed
through the door.

“That look of hers gave me an idea. ‘Now then, doc,’ I said, and tried
to sit up in bed, but my right foot gave me a nasty twinge as I did so.
‘A slight sprain,’ explained the doctor. ‘Nothing serious. You’ll be
about again in a couple of days.’”

“I noticed you walked lame,” interpolated Tuppence.

Julius nodded, and continued:

“‘How did it happen?’ I asked again. He replied dryly. ‘You fell, with
a considerable portion of one of my trees, into one of my newly planted
flower-beds.’

“I liked the man. He seemed to have a sense of humour. I felt sure that
he, at least, was plumb straight. ‘Sure, doc,’ I said, ‘I’m sorry about
the tree, and I guess the new bulbs will be on me. But perhaps you’d
like to know what I was doing in your garden?’ ‘I think the facts do
call for an explanation,’ he replied. ‘Well, to begin with, I wasn’t
after the spoons.’

“He smiled. ‘My first theory. But I soon altered my mind. By the way,
you are an American, are you not?’ I told him my name. ‘And you?’ ‘I am
Dr. Hall, and this, as you doubtless know, is my private nursing home.’

“I didn’t know, but I wasn’t going to put him wise. I was just thankful
for the information. I liked the man, and I felt he was straight, but
I wasn’t going to give him the whole story. For one thing he probably
wouldn’t have believed it.

“I made up my mind in a flash. ‘Why, doctor,’ I said, ‘I guess I feel
an almighty fool, but I owe it to you to let you know that it wasn’t
the Bill Sikes business I was up to.’ Then I went on and mumbled out
something about a girl. I trotted out the stern guardian business, and a
nervous breakdown, and finally explained that I had fancied I recognized
her among the patients at the home, hence my nocturnal adventures. I
guess it was just the kind of story he was expecting. ‘Quite a romance,’
he said genially, when I’d finished. ‘Now, doc,’ I went on, ‘will you
be frank with me? Have you here now, or have you had here at any time,
a young girl called Jane Finn?’ He repeated the name thoughtfully. ‘Jane
Finn?’ he said. ‘No.’

“I was chagrined, and I guess I showed it. ‘You are sure?’ ‘Quite sure,
Mr. Hersheimmer. It is an uncommon name, and I should not have been
likely to forget it.’

“Well, that was flat. It laid me out for a space. I’d kind of hoped
my search was at an end. ‘That’s that,’ I said at last. ‘Now, there’s
another matter. When I was hugging that darned branch I thought I
recognized an old friend of mine talking to one of your nurses.’ I
purposely didn’t mention any name because, of course, Whittington might
be calling himself something quite different down here, but the doctor
answered at once. ‘Mr. Whittington, perhaps?’ ‘That’s the fellow,’ I
replied. ‘What’s he doing down here? Don’t tell me _his_ nerves are out
of order?’

“Dr. Hall laughed. ‘No. He came down to see one of my nurses, Nurse
Edith, who is a niece of his.’ ‘Why, fancy that!’ I exclaimed. ‘Is he
still here?’ ‘No, he went back to town almost immediately.’ ‘What a
pity!’ I ejaculated. ‘But perhaps I could speak to his niece--Nurse
Edith, did you say her name was?’

“But the doctor shook his head. ‘I’m afraid that, too, is impossible.
Nurse Edith left with a patient to-night also.’ ‘I seem to be real
unlucky,’ I remarked. ‘Have you Mr. Whittington’s address in town?
I guess I’d like to look him up when I get back.’ ‘I don’t know his
address. I can write to Nurse Edith for it if you like.’ I thanked him.
‘Don’t say who it is wants it. I’d like to give him a little surprise.’

“That was about all I could do for the moment. Of course, if the girl
was really Whittington’s niece, she might be too cute to fall into the
trap, but it was worth trying. Next thing I did was to write out a wire
to Beresford saying where I was, and that I was laid up with a sprained
foot, and telling him to come down if he wasn’t busy. I had to be
guarded in what I said. However, I didn’t hear from him, and my foot
soon got all right. It was only ricked, not really sprained, so to-day I
said good-bye to the little doctor chap, asked him to send me word if
he heard from Nurse Edith, and came right away back to town. Say, Miss
Tuppence, you’re looking mighty pale!”

“It’s Tommy,” said Tuppence. “What can have happened to him?”

“Buck up, I guess he’s all right really. Why shouldn’t he be? See here,
it was a foreign-looking guy he went off after. Maybe they’ve gone
abroad--to Poland, or something like that?”

Tuppence shook her head.

“He couldn’t without passports and things. Besides I’ve seen that man,
Boris Something, since. He dined with Mrs. Vandemeyer last night.”

“Mrs. Who?”

“I forgot. Of course you don’t know all that.”

“I’m listening,” said Julius, and gave vent to his favourite expression.
“Put me wise.”

Tuppence thereupon related the events of the last two days. Julius’s
astonishment and admiration were unbounded.

“Bully for you! Fancy you a menial. It just tickles me to death!” Then
he added seriously: “But say now, I don’t like it, Miss Tuppence, I sure
don’t. You’re just as plucky as they make ‘em, but I wish you’d keep
right out of this. These crooks we’re up against would as soon croak a
girl as a man any day.”

“Do you think I’m afraid?” said Tuppence indignantly, valiantly
repressing memories of the steely glitter in Mrs. Vandemeyer’s eyes.

“I said before you were darned plucky. But that doesn’t alter facts.”

“Oh, bother _me!_” said Tuppence impatiently. “Let’s think about what
can have happened to Tommy. I’ve written to Mr. Carter about it,” she
added, and told him the gist of her letter.

Julius nodded gravely.

“I guess that’s good as far as it goes. But it’s for us to get busy and
do something.”

“What can we do?” asked Tuppence, her spirits rising.

“I guess we’d better get on the track of Boris. You say he’s been to
your place. Is he likely to come again?”

“He might. I really don’t know.”

“I see. Well, I guess I’d better buy a car, a slap-up one, dress as a
chauffeur and hang about outside. Then if Boris comes, you could make
some kind of signal, and I’d trail him. How’s that?”

“Splendid, but he mightn’t come for weeks.”

“We’ll have to chance that. I’m glad you like the plan.” He rose.

“Where are you going?”

“To buy the car, of course,” replied Julius, surprised. “What make do
you like? I guess you’ll do some riding in it before we’ve finished.”

“Oh,” said Tuppence faintly, “I _like_ Rolls-Royces, but----”

“Sure,” agreed Julius. “What you say goes. I’ll get one.”

“But you can’t at once,” cried Tuppence. “People wait ages sometimes.”

“Little Julius doesn’t,” affirmed Mr. Hersheimmer. “Don’t you worry any.
I’ll be round in the car in half an hour.”

Tuppence got up.

“You’re awfully good, Julius. But I can’t help feeling that it’s rather
a forlorn hope. I’m really pinning my faith to Mr. Carter.”

“Then I shouldn’t.”

“Why?”

“Just an idea of mine.”

“Oh; but he must do something. There’s no one else. By the way, I forgot
to tell you of a queer thing that happened this morning.”

And she narrated her encounter with Sir James Peel Edgerton. Julius was
interested.

“What did the guy mean, do you think?” he asked.

“I don’t quite know,” said Tuppence meditatively. “But I think that, in
an ambiguous, legal, without prejudishish lawyer’s way, he was trying to
warn me.”

“Why should he?”

“I don’t know,” confessed Tuppence. “But he looked kind, and
simply awfully clever. I wouldn’t mind going to him and telling him
everything.”

Somewhat to her surprise, Julius negatived the idea sharply.

“See here,” he said, “we don’t want any lawyers mixed up in this. That
guy couldn’t help us any.”

“Well, I believe he could,” reiterated Tuppence obstinately.

“Don’t you think it. So long. I’ll be back in half an hour.”

Thirty-five minutes had elapsed when Julius returned. He took Tuppence
by the arm, and walked her to the window.

“There she is.”

“Oh!” said Tuppence with a note of reverence in her voice, as she gazed
down at the enormous car.

“She’s some pace-maker, I can tell you,” said Julius complacently.

“How did you get it?” gasped Tuppence.

“She was just being sent home to some bigwig.”

“Well?”

“I went round to his house,” said Julius. “I said that I reckoned a car
like that was worth every penny of twenty thousand dollars. Then I told
him that it was worth just about fifty thousand dollars to me if he’d
get out.”

“Well?” said Tuppence, intoxicated.

“Well,” returned Julius, “he got out, that’s all.”



CHAPTER XII. A FRIEND IN NEED

FRIDAY and Saturday passed uneventfully. Tuppence had received a brief
answer to her appeal from Mr. Carter. In it he pointed out that the
Young Adventurers had undertaken the work at their own risk, and had
been fully warned of the dangers. If anything had happened to Tommy he
regretted it deeply, but he could do nothing.

This was cold comfort. Somehow, without Tommy, all the savour went out
of the adventure, and, for the first time, Tuppence felt doubtful of
success. While they had been together she had never questioned it for
a minute. Although she was accustomed to take the lead, and to pride
herself on her quick-wittedness, in reality she had relied upon Tommy
more than she realized at the time. There was something so eminently
sober and clear-headed about him, his common sense and soundness of
vision were so unvarying, that without him Tuppence felt much like a
rudderless ship. It was curious that Julius, who was undoubtedly much
cleverer than Tommy, did not give her the same feeling of support. She
had accused Tommy of being a pessimist, and it is certain that he
always saw the disadvantages and difficulties which she herself was
optimistically given to overlooking, but nevertheless she had really
relied a good deal on his judgment. He might be slow, but he was very
sure.

It seemed to the girl that, for the first time, she realized the
sinister character of the mission they had undertaken so lightheartedly.
It had begun like a page of romance. Now, shorn of its glamour, it
seemed to be turning to grim reality. Tommy--that was all that mattered.
Many times in the day Tuppence blinked the tears out of her eyes
resolutely. “Little fool,” she would apostrophize herself, “don’t
snivel. Of course you’re fond of him. You’ve known him all your life.
But there’s no need to be sentimental about it.”

In the meantime, nothing more was seen of Boris. He did not come to the
flat, and Julius and the car waited in vain. Tuppence gave herself over
to new meditations. Whilst admitting the truth of Julius’s objections,
she had nevertheless not entirely relinquished the idea of appealing to
Sir James Peel Edgerton. Indeed, she had gone so far as to look up his
address in the _Red Book_. Had he meant to warn her that day? If so,
why? Surely she was at least entitled to demand an explanation. He had
looked at her so kindly. Perhaps he might tell them something concerning
Mrs. Vandemeyer which might lead to a clue to Tommy’s whereabouts.

Anyway, Tuppence decided, with her usual shake of the shoulders, it was
worth trying, and try it she would. Sunday was her afternoon out. She
would meet Julius, persuade him to her point of view, and they would
beard the lion in his den.

When the day arrived Julius needed a considerable amount of persuading,
but Tuppence held firm. “It can do no harm,” was what she always came
back to. In the end Julius gave in, and they proceeded in the car to
Carlton House Terrace.

The door was opened by an irreproachable butler. Tuppence felt a little
nervous. After all, perhaps it _was_ colossal cheek on her part. She
had decided not to ask if Sir James was “at home,” but to adopt a more
personal attitude.

“Will you ask Sir James if I can see him for a few minutes? I have an
important message for him.”

The butler retired, returning a moment or two later.

“Sir James will see you. Will you step this way?”

He ushered them into a room at the back of the house, furnished as a
library. The collection of books was a magnificent one, and Tuppence
noticed that all one wall was devoted to works on crime and criminology.
There were several deep-padded leather arm-chairs, and an old-fashioned
open hearth. In the window was a big roll-top desk strewn with papers at
which the master of the house was sitting.

He rose as they entered.

“You have a message for me? Ah”--he recognized Tuppence with a
smile--“it’s you, is it? Brought a message from Mrs. Vandemeyer, I
suppose?”

“Not exactly,” said Tuppence. “In fact, I’m afraid I only said that to
be quite sure of getting in. Oh, by the way, this is Mr. Hersheimmer,
Sir James Peel Edgerton.”

“Pleased to meet you,” said the American, shooting out a hand.

“Won’t you both sit down?” asked Sir James. He drew forward two chairs.

“Sir James,” said Tuppence, plunging boldly, “I dare say you will think
it is most awful cheek of me coming here like this. Because, of course,
it’s nothing whatever to do with you, and then you’re a very important
person, and of course Tommy and I are very unimportant.” She paused for
breath.

“Tommy?” queried Sir James, looking across at the American.

“No, that’s Julius,” explained Tuppence. “I’m rather nervous, and that
makes me tell it badly. What I really want to know is what you meant by
what you said to me the other day? Did you mean to warn me against Mrs.
Vandemeyer? You did, didn’t you?”

“My dear young lady, as far as I recollect I only mentioned that there
were equally good situations to be obtained elsewhere.”

“Yes, I know. But it was a hint, wasn’t it?”

“Well, perhaps it was,” admitted Sir James gravely.

“Well, I want to know more. I want to know just _why_ you gave me a
hint.”

Sir James smiled at her earnestness.

“Suppose the lady brings a libel action against me for defamation of
character?”

“Of course,” said Tuppence. “I know lawyers are always dreadfully
careful. But can’t we say ‘without prejudice’ first, and then say just
what we want to.”

“Well,” said Sir James, still smiling, “without prejudice, then, if I
had a young sister forced to earn her living, I should not like to see
her in Mrs. Vandemeyer’s service. I felt it incumbent on me just to give
you a hint. It is no place for a young and inexperienced girl. That is
all I can tell you.”

“I see,” said Tuppence thoughtfully. “Thank you very much. But I’m not
_really_ inexperienced, you know. I knew perfectly that she was a bad
lot when I went there--as a matter of fact that’s _why_ I went----” She
broke off, seeing some bewilderment on the lawyer’s face, and went on:
“I think perhaps I’d better tell you the whole story, Sir James. I’ve a
sort of feeling that you’d know in a minute if I didn’t tell the truth,
and so you might as well know all about it from the beginning. What do
you think, Julius?”

“As you’re bent on it, I’d go right ahead with the facts,” replied the
American, who had so far sat in silence.

“Yes, tell me all about it,” said Sir James. “I want to know who Tommy
is.”

Thus encouraged Tuppence plunged into her tale, and the lawyer listened
with close attention.

“Very interesting,” he said, when she finished. “A great deal of what
you tell me, child, is already known to me. I’ve had certain theories
of my own about this Jane Finn. You’ve done extraordinarily well so
far, but it’s rather too bad of--what do you know him as?--Mr. Carter to
pitchfork you two young things into an affair of this kind. By the
way, where did Mr. Hersheimmer come in originally? You didn’t make that
clear?”

Julius answered for himself.

“I’m Jane’s first cousin,” he explained, returning the lawyer’s keen
gaze.

“Ah!”

“Oh, Sir James,” broke out Tuppence, “what do you think has become of
Tommy?”

“H’m.” The lawyer rose, and paced slowly up and down. “When you arrived,
young lady, I was just packing up my traps. Going to Scotland by the
night train for a few days’ fishing. But there are different kinds of
fishing. I’ve a good mind to stay, and see if we can’t get on the track
of that young chap.”

“Oh!” Tuppence clasped her hands ecstatically.

“All the same, as I said before, it’s too bad of--of Carter to set you
two babies on a job like this. Now, don’t get offended, Miss--er----”

“Cowley. Prudence Cowley. But my friends call me Tuppence.”

“Well, Miss Tuppence, then, as I’m certainly going to be a friend. Don’t
be offended because I think you’re young. Youth is a failing only too
easily outgrown. Now, about this young Tommy of yours----”

“Yes.” Tuppence clasped her hands.

“Frankly, things look bad for him. He’s been butting in somewhere where
he wasn’t wanted. Not a doubt of it. But don’t give up hope.”

“And you really will help us? There, Julius! He didn’t want me to come,”
 she added by way of explanation.

“H’m,” said the lawyer, favouring Julius with another keen glance. “And
why was that?”

“I reckoned it would be no good worrying you with a petty little
business like this.”

“I see.” He paused a moment. “This petty little business, as you call
it, bears directly on a very big business, bigger perhaps than either
you or Miss Tuppence know. If this boy is alive, he may have very
valuable information to give us. Therefore, we must find him.”

“Yes, but how?” cried Tuppence. “I’ve tried to think of everything.”

Sir James smiled.

“And yet there’s one person quite near at hand who in all probability
knows where he is, or at all events where he is likely to be.”

“Who is that?” asked Tuppence, puzzled.

“Mrs. Vandemeyer.”

“Yes, but she’d never tell us.”

“Ah, that is where I come in. I think it quite likely that I shall be
able to make Mrs. Vandemeyer tell me what I want to know.”

“How?” demanded Tuppence, opening her eyes very wide.

“Oh, just by asking her questions,” replied Sir James easily. “That’s
the way we do it, you know.”

He tapped with his finger on the table, and Tuppence felt again the
intense power that radiated from the man.

“And if she won’t tell?” asked Julius suddenly.

“I think she will. I have one or two powerful levers. Still, in that
unlikely event, there is always the possibility of bribery.”

“Sure. And that’s where I come in!” cried Julius, bringing his fist down
on the table with a bang. “You can count on me, if necessary, for one
million dollars. Yes, sir, one million dollars!”

Sir James sat down and subjected Julius to a long scrutiny.

“Mr. Hersheimmer,” he said at last, “that is a very large sum.”

“I guess it’ll have to be. These aren’t the kind of folk to offer
sixpence to.”

“At the present rate of exchange it amounts to considerably over two
hundred and fifty thousand pounds.”

“That’s so. Maybe you think I’m talking through my hat, but I can
deliver the goods all right, with enough over to spare for your fee.”

Sir James flushed slightly.

“There is no question of a fee, Mr. Hersheimmer. I am not a private
detective.”

“Sorry. I guess I was just a mite hasty, but I’ve been feeling bad about
this money question. I wanted to offer a big reward for news of Jane
some days ago, but your crusted institution of Scotland Yard advised me
against it. Said it was undesirable.”

“They were probably right,” said Sir James dryly.

“But it’s all O.K. about Julius,” put in Tuppence. “He’s not pulling
your leg. He’s got simply pots of money.”

“The old man piled it up in style,” explained Julius. “Now, let’s get
down to it. What’s your idea?”

Sir James considered for a moment or two.

“There is no time to be lost. The sooner we strike the better.” He
turned to Tuppence. “Is Mrs. Vandemeyer dining out to-night, do you
know?”

“Yes, I think so, but she will not be out late. Otherwise, she would
have taken the latchkey.”

“Good. I will call upon her about ten o’clock. What time are you
supposed to return?”

“About nine-thirty or ten, but I could go back earlier.”

“You must not do that on any account. It might arouse suspicion if you
did not stay out till the usual time. Be back by nine-thirty. I will
arrive at ten. Mr. Hersheimmer will wait below in a taxi perhaps.”

“He’s got a new Rolls-Royce car,” said Tuppence with vicarious pride.

“Even better. If I succeed in obtaining the address from her, we can
go there at once, taking Mrs. Vandemeyer with us if necessary. You
understand?”

“Yes.” Tuppence rose to her feet with a skip of delight. “Oh, I feel so
much better!”

“Don’t build on it too much, Miss Tuppence. Go easy.”

Julius turned to the lawyer.

“Say, then. I’ll call for you in the car round about nine-thirty. Is
that right?”

“Perhaps that will be the best plan. It would be unnecessary to have two
cars waiting about. Now, Miss Tuppence, my advice to you is to go and
have a good dinner, a _really_ good one, mind. And don’t think ahead
more than you can help.”

He shook hands with them both, and a moment later they were outside.

“Isn’t he a duck?” inquired Tuppence ecstatically, as she skipped down
the steps. “Oh, Julius, isn’t he just a duck?”

“Well, I allow he seems to be the goods all right. And I was wrong about
its being useless to go to him. Say, shall we go right away back to the
_Ritz?_”

“I must walk a bit, I think. I feel so excited. Drop me in the park,
will you? Unless you’d like to come too?”

“I want to get some petrol,” he explained. “And send off a cable or
two.”

“All right. I’ll meet you at the _Ritz_ at seven. We’ll have to dine
upstairs. I can’t show myself in these glad rags.”

“Sure. I’ll get Felix help me choose the menu. He’s some head waiter,
that. So long.”

Tuppence walked briskly along towards the Serpentine, first glancing at
her watch. It was nearly six o’clock. She remembered that she had had no
tea, but felt too excited to be conscious of hunger. She walked as
far as Kensington Gardens and then slowly retraced her steps, feeling
infinitely better for the fresh air and exercise. It was not so easy to
follow Sir James’s advice, and put the possible events of the evening
out of her head. As she drew nearer and nearer to Hyde Park corner, the
temptation to return to South Audley Mansions was almost irresistible.

At any rate, she decided, it would do no harm just to go and _look_
at the building. Perhaps, then, she could resign herself to waiting
patiently for ten o’clock.

South Audley Mansions looked exactly the same as usual. What Tuppence
had expected she hardly knew, but the sight of its red brick stolidity
slightly assuaged the growing and entirely unreasonable uneasiness
that possessed her. She was just turning away when she heard a piercing
whistle, and the faithful Albert came running from the building to join
her.

Tuppence frowned. It was no part of the programme to have attention
called to her presence in the neighbourhood, but Albert was purple with
suppressed excitement.

“I say, miss, she’s a-going!”

“Who’s going?” demanded Tuppence sharply.

“The crook. Ready Rita. Mrs. Vandemeyer. She’s a-packing up, and she’s
just sent down word for me to get her a taxi.”

“What?” Tuppence clutched his arm.

“It’s the truth, miss. I thought maybe as you didn’t know about it.”

“Albert,” cried Tuppence, “you’re a brick. If it hadn’t been for you
we’d have lost her.”

Albert flushed with pleasure at this tribute.

“There’s no time to lose,” said Tuppence, crossing the road. “I’ve got
to stop her. At all costs I must keep her here until----” She broke off.
“Albert, there’s a telephone here, isn’t there?”

The boy shook his head.

“The flats mostly have their own, miss. But there’s a box just round the
corner.”

“Go to it then, at once, and ring up the _Ritz Hotel_. Ask for Mr.
Hersheimmer, and when you get him tell him to get Sir James and come on
at once, as Mrs. Vandemeyer is trying to hook it. If you can’t get him,
ring up Sir James Peel Edgerton, you’ll find his number in the book, and
tell him what’s happening. You won’t forget the names, will you?”

Albert repeated them glibly. “You trust to me, miss, it’ll be all right.
But what about you? Aren’t you afraid to trust yourself with her?”

“No, no, that’s all right. _But go and telephone_. Be quick.”

Drawing a long breath, Tuppence entered the Mansions and ran up to the
door of No. 20. How she was to detain Mrs. Vandemeyer until the two men
arrived, she did not know, but somehow or other it had to be done, and
she must accomplish the task single-handed. What had occasioned this
precipitate departure? Did Mrs. Vandemeyer suspect her?

Speculations were idle. Tuppence pressed the bell firmly. She might
learn something from the cook.

Nothing happened and, after waiting some minutes, Tuppence pressed the
bell again, keeping her finger on the button for some little while.
At last she heard footsteps inside, and a moment later Mrs. Vandemeyer
herself opened the door. She lifted her eyebrows at the sight of the
girl.

“You?”

“I had a touch of toothache, ma’am,” said Tuppence glibly. “So thought
it better to come home and have a quiet evening.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer said nothing, but she drew back and let Tuppence pass
into the hall.

“How unfortunate for you,” she said coldly. “You had better go to bed.”

“Oh, I shall be all right in the kitchen, ma’am. Cook will----”

“Cook is out,” said Mrs. Vandemeyer, in a rather disagreeable tone. “I
sent her out. So you see you had better go to bed.”

Suddenly Tuppence felt afraid. There was a ring in Mrs. Vandemeyer’s
voice that she did not like at all. Also, the other woman was slowly
edging her up the passage. Tuppence turned at bay.

“I don’t want----”

Then, in a flash, a rim of cold steel touched her temple, and Mrs.
Vandemeyer’s voice rose cold and menacing:

“You damned little fool! Do you think I don’t know? No, don’t answer. If
you struggle or cry out, I’ll shoot you like a dog.”

The rim of steel pressed a little harder against the girl’s temple.

“Now then, march,” went on Mrs. Vandemeyer. “This way--into my room. In
a minute, when I’ve done with you, you’ll go to bed as I told you to.
And you’ll sleep--oh yes, my little spy, you’ll sleep all right!”

There was a sort of hideous geniality in the last words which Tuppence
did not at all like. For the moment there was nothing to be done, and
she walked obediently into Mrs. Vandemeyer’s bedroom. The pistol never
left her forehead. The room was in a state of wild disorder, clothes
were flung about right and left, a suit-case and a hat box, half-packed,
stood in the middle of the floor.

Tuppence pulled herself together with an effort. Her voice shook a
little, but she spoke out bravely.

“Come now,” she said. “This is nonsense. You can’t shoot me. Why, every
one in the building would hear the report.”

“I’d risk that,” said Mrs. Vandemeyer cheerfully. “But, as long as you
don’t sing out for help, you’re all right--and I don’t think you will.
You’re a clever girl. You deceived _me_ all right. I hadn’t a suspicion
of you! So I’ve no doubt that you understand perfectly well that this
is where I’m on top and you’re underneath. Now then--sit on the bed. Put
your hands above your head, and if you value your life don’t move them.”

Tuppence obeyed passively. Her good sense told her that there was
nothing else to do but accept the situation. If she shrieked for help
there was very little chance of anyone hearing her, whereas there was
probably quite a good chance of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s shooting her. In the
meantime, every minute of delay gained was valuable.

Mrs. Vandemeyer laid down the revolver on the edge of the washstand
within reach of her hand, and, still eyeing Tuppence like a lynx in case
the girl should attempt to move, she took a little stoppered bottle from
its place on the marble and poured some of its contents into a glass
which she filled up with water.

“What’s that?” asked Tuppence sharply.

“Something to make you sleep soundly.”

Tuppence paled a little.

“Are you going to poison me?” she asked in a whisper.

“Perhaps,” said Mrs. Vandemeyer, smiling agreeably.

“Then I shan’t drink it,” said Tuppence firmly. “I’d much rather be
shot. At any rate that would make a row, and some one might hear it. But
I won’t be killed off quietly like a lamb.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer stamped her foot.

“Don’t be a little fool! Do you really think I want a hue and cry for
murder out after me? If you’ve any sense at all, you’ll realize that
poisoning you wouldn’t suit my book at all. It’s a sleeping draught,
that’s all. You’ll wake up to-morrow morning none the worse. I simply
don’t want the bother of tying you up and gagging you. That’s the
alternative--and you won’t like it, I can tell you! I can be very rough
if I choose. So drink this down like a good girl, and you’ll be none the
worse for it.”

In her heart of hearts Tuppence believed her. The arguments she had
adduced rang true. It was a simple and effective method of getting her
out of the way for the time being. Nevertheless, the girl did not take
kindly to the idea of being tamely put to sleep without as much as one
bid for freedom. She felt that once Mrs. Vandemeyer gave them the slip,
the last hope of finding Tommy would be gone.

Tuppence was quick in her mental processes. All these reflections
passed through her mind in a flash, and she saw where a chance, a very
problematical chance, lay, and she determined to risk all in one supreme
effort.

Accordingly, she lurched suddenly off the bed and fell on her knees
before Mrs. Vandemeyer, clutching her skirts frantically.

“I don’t believe it,” she moaned. “It’s poison--I know it’s poison.
Oh, don’t make me drink it”--her voice rose to a shriek--“don’t make me
drink it!”

Mrs. Vandemeyer, glass in hand, looked down with a curling lip at this
sudden collapse.

“Get up, you little idiot! Don’t go on drivelling there. How you ever
had the nerve to play your part as you did I can’t think.” She stamped
her foot. “Get up, I say.”

But Tuppence continued to cling and sob, interjecting her sobs with
incoherent appeals for mercy. Every minute gained was to the good.
Moreover, as she grovelled, she moved imperceptibly nearer to her
objective.

Mrs. Vandemeyer gave a sharp impatient exclamation, and jerked the girl
to her knees.

“Drink it at once!” Imperiously she pressed the glass to the girl’s
lips.

Tuppence gave one last despairing moan.

“You swear it won’t hurt me?” she temporized.

“Of course it won’t hurt you. Don’t be a fool.”

“Will you swear it?”

“Yes, yes,” said the other impatiently. “I swear it.”

Tuppence raised a trembling left hand to the glass.

“Very well.” Her mouth opened meekly.

Mrs. Vandemeyer gave a sigh of relief, off her guard for the moment.
Then, quick as a flash, Tuppence jerked the glass upward as hard as she
could. The fluid in it splashed into Mrs. Vandemeyer’s face, and during
her momentary gasp, Tuppence’s right hand shot out and grasped the
revolver where it lay on the edge of the washstand. The next moment
she had sprung back a pace, and the revolver pointed straight at Mrs.
Vandemeyer’s heart, with no unsteadiness in the hand that held it.

In the moment of victory, Tuppence betrayed a somewhat unsportsmanlike
triumph.

“Now who’s on top and who’s underneath?” she crowed.

The other’s face was convulsed with rage. For a minute Tuppence thought
she was going to spring upon her, which would have placed the girl in an
unpleasant dilemma, since she meant to draw the line at actually letting
off the revolver. However, with an effort Mrs. Vandemeyer controlled
herself, and at last a slow evil smile crept over her face.

“Not a fool, then, after all! You did that well, girl. But you shall pay
for it--oh, yes, you shall pay for it! I have a long memory!”

“I’m surprised you should have been gulled so easily,” said Tuppence
scornfully. “Did you really think I was the kind of girl to roll about
on the floor and whine for mercy?”

“You may do--some day!” said the other significantly.

The cold malignity of her manner sent an unpleasant chill down
Tuppence’s spine, but she was not going to give in to it.

“Supposing we sit down,” she said pleasantly. “Our present attitude is
a little melodramatic. No--not on the bed. Draw a chair up to the table,
that’s right. Now I’ll sit opposite you with the revolver in front of
me--just in case of accidents. Splendid. Now, let’s talk.”

“What about?” said Mrs. Vandemeyer sullenly.

Tuppence eyed her thoughtfully for a minute. She was remembering several
things. Boris’s words, “I believe you would sell-- _us!_” and her
answer, “The price would have to be enormous,” given lightly, it was
true, yet might not there be a substratum of truth in it? Long ago,
had not Whittington asked: “Who’s been blabbing? Rita?” Would Rita
Vandemeyer prove to be the weak spot in the armour of Mr. Brown?

Keeping her eyes fixed steadily on the other’s face, Tuppence replied
quietly:

“Money----”

Mrs. Vandemeyer started. Clearly, the reply was unexpected.

“What do you mean?”

“I’ll tell you. You said just now that you had a long memory. A long
memory isn’t half as useful as a long purse! I dare say it relieves your
feelings a good deal to plan out all sorts of dreadful things to do to
me, but is that _practical?_ Revenge is very unsatisfactory. Every one
always says so. But money”--Tuppence warmed to her pet creed--“well,
there’s nothing unsatisfactory about money, is there?”

“Do you think,” said Mrs. Vandemeyer scornfully, “that I am the kind of
woman to sell my friends?”

“Yes,” said Tuppence promptly. “If the price was big enough.”

“A paltry hundred pounds or so!”

“No,” said Tuppence. “I should suggest--a hundred thousand!”

Her economical spirit did not permit her to mention the whole million
dollars suggested by Julius.

A flush crept over Mrs. Vandemeyer’s face.

“What did you say?” she asked, her fingers playing nervously with a
brooch on her breast. In that moment Tuppence knew that the fish was
hooked, and for the first time she felt a horror of her own money-loving
spirit. It gave her a dreadful sense of kinship to the woman fronting
her.

“A hundred thousand pounds,” repeated Tuppence.

The light died out of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s eyes. She leaned back in her
chair.

“Bah!” she said. “You haven’t got it.”

“No,” admitted Tuppence, “I haven’t--but I know some one who has.”

“Who?”

“A friend of mine.”

“Must be a millionaire,” remarked Mrs. Vandemeyer unbelievingly.

“As a matter of fact he is. He’s an American. He’ll pay you that
without a murmur. You can take it from me that it’s a perfectly genuine
proposition.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer sat up again.

“I’m inclined to believe you,” she said slowly.

There was silence between them for some time, then Mrs. Vandemeyer
looked up.

“What does he want to know, this friend of yours?”

Tuppence went through a momentary struggle, but it was Julius’s money,
and his interests must come first.

“He wants to know where Jane Finn is,” she said boldly.

Mrs. Vandemeyer showed no surprise.

“I’m not sure where she is at the present moment,” she replied.

“But you could find out?”

“Oh, yes,” returned Mrs. Vandemeyer carelessly. “There would be no
difficulty about that.”

“Then”--Tuppence’s voice shook a little--“there’s a boy, a friend of
mine. I’m afraid something’s happened to him, through your pal Boris.”

“What’s his name?”

“Tommy Beresford.”

“Never heard of him. But I’ll ask Boris. He’ll tell me anything he
knows.”

“Thank you.” Tuppence felt a terrific rise in her spirits. It impelled
her to more audacious efforts. “There’s one thing more.”

“Well?”

Tuppence leaned forward and lowered her voice.

_“Who is Mr. Brown?”_

Her quick eyes saw the sudden paling of the beautiful face. With an
effort Mrs. Vandemeyer pulled herself together and tried to resume her
former manner. But the attempt was a mere parody.

She shrugged her shoulders.

“You can’t have learnt much about us if you don’t know that _nobody
knows who Mr. Brown is_....”

“You do,” said Tuppence quietly.

Again the colour deserted the other’s face.

“What makes you think that?”

“I don’t know,” said the girl truthfully. “But I’m sure.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer stared in front of her for a long time.

“Yes,” she said hoarsely, at last, “_I_ know. I was beautiful, you
see--very beautiful----”

“You are still,” said Tuppence with admiration.

Mrs. Vandemeyer shook her head. There was a strange gleam in her
electric-blue eyes.

“Not beautiful enough,” she said in a soft dangerous voice.
“Not--beautiful--enough! And sometimes, lately, I’ve been afraid....
It’s dangerous to know too much!” She leaned forward across the table.
“Swear that my name shan’t be brought into it--that no one shall ever
know.”

“I swear it. And, once’s he caught, you’ll be out of danger.”

A terrified look swept across Mrs. Vandemeyer’s face.

“Shall I? Shall I ever be?” She clutched Tuppence’s arm. “You’re sure
about the money?”

“Quite sure.”

“When shall I have it? There must be no delay.”

“This friend of mine will be here presently. He may have to send cables,
or something like that. But there won’t be any delay--he’s a terrific
hustler.”

A resolute look settled on Mrs. Vandemeyer’s face.

“I’ll do it. It’s a great sum of money, and besides”--she gave a curious
smile--“it is not--wise to throw over a woman like me!”

For a moment or two, she remained smiling, and lightly tapping her
fingers on the table. Suddenly she started, and her face blanched.

“What was that?”

“I heard nothing.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer gazed round her fearfully.

“If there should be some one listening----”

“Nonsense. Who could there be?”

“Even the walls might have ears,” whispered the other. “I tell you I’m
frightened. You don’t know him!”

“Think of the hundred thousand pounds,” said Tuppence soothingly.

Mrs. Vandemeyer passed her tongue over her dried lips.

“You don’t know him,” she reiterated hoarsely. “He’s--ah!”

With a shriek of terror she sprang to her feet. Her outstretched hand
pointed over Tuppence’s head. Then she swayed to the ground in a dead
faint.

Tuppence looked round to see what had startled her.

In the doorway were Sir James Peel Edgerton and Julius Hersheimmer.



CHAPTER XIII. THE VIGIL

SIR James brushed past Julius and hurriedly bent over the fallen woman.

“Heart,” he said sharply. “Seeing us so suddenly must have given her a
shock. Brandy--and quickly, or she’ll slip through our fingers.”

Julius hurried to the washstand.

“Not there,” said Tuppence over her shoulder. “In the tantalus in the
dining-room. Second door down the passage.”

Between them Sir James and Tuppence lifted Mrs. Vandemeyer and carried
her to the bed. There they dashed water on her face, but with no result.
The lawyer fingered her pulse.

“Touch and go,” he muttered. “I wish that young fellow would hurry up
with the brandy.”

At that moment Julius re-entered the room, carrying a glass half full of
the spirit which he handed to Sir James. While Tuppence lifted her head
the lawyer tried to force a little of the spirit between her closed
lips. Finally the woman opened her eyes feebly. Tuppence held the glass
to her lips.

“Drink this.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer complied. The brandy brought the colour back to her
white cheeks, and revived her in a marvellous fashion. She tried to sit
up--then fell back with a groan, her hand to her side.

“It’s my heart,” she whispered. “I mustn’t talk.”

She lay back with closed eyes.

Sir James kept his finger on her wrist a minute longer, then withdrew it
with a nod.

“She’ll do now.”

All three moved away, and stood together talking in low voices. One
and all were conscious of a certain feeling of anticlimax. Clearly any
scheme for cross-questioning the lady was out of the question for the
moment. For the time being they were baffled, and could do nothing.

Tuppence related how Mrs. Vandemeyer had declared herself willing
to disclose the identity of Mr. Brown, and how she had consented to
discover and reveal to them the whereabouts of Jane Finn. Julius was
congratulatory.

“That’s all right, Miss Tuppence. Splendid! I guess that hundred
thousand pounds will look just as good in the morning to the lady as it
did over night. There’s nothing to worry over. She won’t speak without
the cash anyway, you bet!”

There was certainly a good deal of common sense in this, and Tuppence
felt a little comforted.

“What you say is true,” said Sir James meditatively. “I must confess,
however, that I cannot help wishing we had not interrupted at the minute
we did. Still, it cannot be helped, it is only a matter of waiting until
the morning.”

He looked across at the inert figure on the bed. Mrs. Vandemeyer lay
perfectly passive with closed eyes. He shook his head.

“Well,” said Tuppence, with an attempt at cheerfulness, “we must wait
until the morning, that’s all. But I don’t think we ought to leave the
flat.”

“What about leaving that bright boy of yours on guard?”

“Albert? And suppose she came round again and hooked it. Albert couldn’t
stop her.”

“I guess she won’t want to make tracks away from the dollars.”

“She might. She seemed very frightened of ‘Mr. Brown.’”

“What? Real plumb scared of him?”

“Yes. She looked round and said even walls had ears.”

“Maybe she meant a dictaphone,” said Julius with interest.

“Miss Tuppence is right,” said Sir James quietly. “We must not leave the
flat--if only for Mrs. Vandemeyer’s sake.”

Julius stared at him.

“You think he’d get after her? Between now and to-morrow morning. How
could he know, even?”

“You forget your own suggestion of a dictaphone,” said Sir James dryly.
“We have a very formidable adversary. I believe, if we exercise all due
care, that there is a very good chance of his being delivered into our
hands. But we must neglect no precaution. We have an important witness,
but she must be safeguarded. I would suggest that Miss Tuppence should
go to bed, and that you and I, Mr. Hersheimmer, should share the vigil.”

Tuppence was about to protest, but happening to glance at the bed she
saw Mrs. Vandemeyer, her eyes half-open, with such an expression of
mingled fear and malevolence on her face that it quite froze the words
on her lips.

For a moment she wondered whether the faint and the heart attack had
been a gigantic sham, but remembering the deadly pallor she could hardly
credit the supposition. As she looked the expression disappeared as by
magic, and Mrs. Vandemeyer lay inert and motionless as before. For a
moment the girl fancied she must have dreamt it. But she determined
nevertheless to be on the alert.

“Well,” said Julius, “I guess we’d better make a move out of here any
way.”

The others fell in with his suggestion. Sir James again felt Mrs.
Vandemeyer’s pulse.

“Perfectly satisfactory,” he said in a low voice to Tuppence. “She’ll be
absolutely all right after a night’s rest.”

The girl hesitated a moment by the bed. The intensity of the expression
she had surprised had impressed her powerfully. Mrs. Vandemeyer lifted
her lids. She seemed to be struggling to speak. Tuppence bent over her.

“Don’t--leave----” she seemed unable to proceed, murmuring something
that sounded like “sleepy.” Then she tried again.

Tuppence bent lower still. It was only a breath.

“Mr.--Brown----” The voice stopped.

But the half-closed eyes seemed still to send an agonized message.

Moved by a sudden impulse, the girl said quickly:

“I shan’t leave the flat. I shall sit up all night.”

A flash of relief showed before the lids descended once more. Apparently
Mrs. Vandemeyer slept. But her words had awakened a new uneasiness in
Tuppence. What had she meant by that low murmur: “Mr. Brown?” Tuppence
caught herself nervously looking over her shoulder. The big wardrobe
loomed up in a sinister fashion before her eyes. Plenty of room for a
man to hide in that.... Half-ashamed of herself, Tuppence pulled it open
and looked inside. No one--of course! She stooped down and looked under
the bed. There was no other possible hiding-place.

Tuppence gave her familiar shake of the shoulders. It was absurd, this
giving way to nerves! Slowly she went out of the room. Julius and Sir
James were talking in a low voice. Sir James turned to her.

“Lock the door on the outside, please, Miss Tuppence, and take out the
key. There must be no chance of anyone entering that room.”

The gravity of his manner impressed them, and Tuppence felt less ashamed
of her attack of “nerves.”

“Say,” remarked Julius suddenly, “there’s Tuppence’s bright boy. I guess
I’d better go down and ease his young mind. That’s some lad, Tuppence.”

“How did you get in, by the way?” asked Tuppence suddenly. “I forgot to
ask.”

“Well, Albert got me on the phone all right. I ran round for Sir James
here, and we came right on. The boy was on the look out for us, and was
just a mite worried about what might have happened to you. He’d been
listening outside the door of the flat, but couldn’t hear anything.
Anyhow he suggested sending us up in the coal lift instead of ringing
the bell. And sure enough we landed in the scullery and came right along
to find you. Albert’s still below, and must be just hopping mad by this
time.” With which Julius departed abruptly.

“Now then, Miss Tuppence,” said Sir James, “you know this place better
than I do. Where do you suggest we should take up our quarters?”

Tuppence considered for a moment or two.

“I think Mrs. Vandemeyer’s boudoir would be the most comfortable,” she
said at last, and led the way there.

Sir James looked round approvingly.

“This will do very well, and now, my dear young lady, do go to bed and
get some sleep.”

Tuppence shook her head resolutely.

“I couldn’t, thank you, Sir James. I should dream of Mr. Brown all
night!”

“But you’ll be so tired, child.”

“No, I shan’t. I’d rather stay up--really.”

The lawyer gave in.

Julius reappeared some minutes later, having reassured Albert and
rewarded him lavishly for his services. Having in his turn failed to
persuade Tuppence to go to bed, he said decisively:

“At any rate, you’ve got to have something to eat right away. Where’s
the larder?”

Tuppence directed him, and he returned in a few minutes with a cold pie
and three plates.

After a hearty meal, the girl felt inclined to pooh-pooh her fancies of
half an hour before. The power of the money bribe could not fail.

“And now, Miss Tuppence,” said Sir James, “we want to hear your
adventures.”

“That’s so,” agreed Julius.

Tuppence narrated her adventures with some complacence. Julius
occasionally interjected an admiring “Bully.” Sir James said nothing
until she had finished, when his quiet “well done, Miss Tuppence,” made
her flush with pleasure.

“There’s one thing I don’t get clearly,” said Julius. “What put her up
to clearing out?”

“I don’t know,” confessed Tuppence.

Sir James stroked his chin thoughtfully.

“The room was in great disorder. That looks as though her flight was
unpremeditated. Almost as though she got a sudden warning to go from
some one.”

“Mr. Brown, I suppose,” said Julius scoffingly.

The lawyer looked at him deliberately for a minute or two.

“Why not?” he said. “Remember, you yourself have once been worsted by
him.”

Julius flushed with vexation.

“I feel just mad when I think of how I handed out Jane’s photograph to
him like a lamb. Gee, if I ever lay hands on it again, I’ll freeze on to
it like--like hell!”

“That contingency is likely to be a remote one,” said the other dryly.

“I guess you’re right,” said Julius frankly. “And, in any case, it’s the
original I’m out after. Where do you think she can be, Sir James?”

The lawyer shook his head.

“Impossible to say. But I’ve a very good idea where she _has_ been.”

“You have? Where?”

Sir James smiled.

“At the scene of your nocturnal adventures, the Bournemouth nursing
home.”

“There? Impossible. I asked.”

“No, my dear sir, you asked if anyone of the name of Jane Finn had been
there. Now, if the girl had been placed there it would almost certainly
be under an assumed name.”

“Bully for you,” cried Julius. “I never thought of that!”

“It was fairly obvious,” said the other.

“Perhaps the doctor’s in it too,” suggested Tuppence.

Julius shook his head.

“I don’t think so. I took to him at once. No, I’m pretty sure Dr. Hall’s
all right.”

“Hall, did you say?” asked Sir James. “That is curious--really very
curious.”

“Why?” demanded Tuppence.

“Because I happened to meet him this morning. I’ve known him slightly on
and off for some years, and this morning I ran across him in the street.
Staying at the _Métropole_, he told me.” He turned to Julius. “Didn’t
he tell you he was coming up to town?”

Julius shook his head.

“Curious,” mused Sir James. “You did not mention his name this
afternoon, or I would have suggested your going to him for further
information with my card as introduction.”

“I guess I’m a mutt,” said Julius with unusual humility. “I ought to
have thought of the false name stunt.”

“How could you think of anything after falling out of that tree?” cried
Tuppence. “I’m sure anyone else would have been killed right off.”

“Well, I guess it doesn’t matter now, anyway,” said Julius. “We’ve got
Mrs. Vandemeyer on a string, and that’s all we need.”

“Yes,” said Tuppence, but there was a lack of assurance in her voice.

A silence settled down over the party. Little by little the magic of
the night began to gain a hold on them. There were sudden creaks of the
furniture, imperceptible rustlings in the curtains. Suddenly Tuppence
sprang up with a cry.

“I can’t help it. I know Mr. Brown’s somewhere in the flat! I can _feel_
him.”

“Sure, Tuppence, how could he be? This door’s open into the hall. No
one could have come in by the front door without our seeing and hearing
him.”

“I can’t help it. I _feel_ he’s here!”

She looked appealingly at Sir James, who replied gravely:

“With due deference to your feelings, Miss Tuppence (and mine as well
for that matter), I do not see how it is humanly possible for anyone to
be in the flat without our knowledge.”

The girl was a little comforted by his words.

“Sitting up at night is always rather jumpy,” she confessed.

“Yes,” said Sir James. “We are in the condition of people holding a
séance. Perhaps if a medium were present we might get some marvellous
results.”

“Do you believe in spiritualism?” asked Tuppence, opening her eyes wide.

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders.

“There is some truth in it, without a doubt. But most of the testimony
would not pass muster in the witness-box.”

The hours drew on. With the first faint glimmerings of dawn, Sir James
drew aside the curtains. They beheld, what few Londoners see, the slow
rising of the sun over the sleeping city. Somehow, with the coming
of the light, the dreads and fancies of the past night seemed absurd.
Tuppence’s spirits revived to the normal.

“Hooray!” she said. “It’s going to be a gorgeous day. And we shall find
Tommy. And Jane Finn. And everything will be lovely. I shall ask Mr.
Carter if I can’t be made a Dame!”

At seven o’clock Tuppence volunteered to go and make some tea. She
returned with a tray, containing the teapot and four cups.

“Who’s the other cup for?” inquired Julius.

“The prisoner, of course. I suppose we might call her that?”

“Taking her tea seems a kind of anticlimax to last night,” said Julius
thoughtfully.

“Yes, it does,” admitted Tuppence. “But, anyway, here goes. Perhaps
you’d both come, too, in case she springs on me, or anything. You see,
we don’t know what mood she’ll wake up in.”

Sir James and Julius accompanied her to the door.

“Where’s the key? Oh, of course, I’ve got it myself.”

She put it in the lock, and turned it, then paused.

“Supposing, after all, she’s escaped?” she murmured in a whisper.

“Plumb impossible,” replied Julius reassuringly.

But Sir James said nothing.

Tuppence drew a long breath and entered. She heaved a sigh of relief as
she saw that Mrs. Vandemeyer was lying on the bed.

“Good morning,” she remarked cheerfully. “I’ve brought you some tea.”

Mrs. Vandemeyer did not reply. Tuppence put down the cup on the table
by the bed and went across to draw up the blinds. When she turned, Mrs.
Vandemeyer still lay without a movement. With a sudden fear clutching
at her heart, Tuppence ran to the bed. The hand she lifted was cold as
ice.... Mrs. Vandemeyer would never speak now....

Her cry brought the others. A very few minutes sufficed. Mrs. Vandemeyer
was dead--must have been dead some hours. She had evidently died in her
sleep.

“If that isn’t the cruellest luck,” cried Julius in despair.

The lawyer was calmer, but there was a curious gleam in his eyes.

“If it is luck,” he replied.

“You don’t think--but, say, that’s plumb impossible--no one could have
got in.”

“No,” admitted the lawyer. “I don’t see how they could. And yet--she is
on the point of betraying Mr. Brown, and--she dies. Is it only chance?”

“But how----”

“Yes, _how!_ That is what we must find out.” He stood there silently,
gently stroking his chin. “We must find out,” he said quietly, and
Tuppence felt that if she was Mr. Brown she would not like the tone of
those simple words.

Julius’s glance went to the window.

“The window’s open,” he remarked. “Do you think----”

Tuppence shook her head.

“The balcony only goes along as far as the boudoir. We were there.”

“He might have slipped out----” suggested Julius.

But Sir James interrupted him.

“Mr. Brown’s methods are not so crude. In the meantime we must send for
a doctor, but before we do so, is there anything in this room that might
be of value to us?”

Hastily, the three searched. A charred mass in the grate indicated
that Mrs. Vandemeyer had been burning papers on the eve of her flight.
Nothing of importance remained, though they searched the other rooms as
well.

“There’s that,” said Tuppence suddenly, pointing to a small,
old-fashioned safe let into the wall. “It’s for jewellery, I believe,
but there might be something else in it.”

The key was in the lock, and Julius swung open the door, and searched
inside. He was some time over the task.

“Well,” said Tuppence impatiently.

There was a pause before Julius answered, then he withdrew his head and
shut to the door.

“Nothing,” he said.

In five minutes a brisk young doctor arrived, hastily summoned. He was
deferential to Sir James, whom he recognized.

“Heart failure, or possibly an overdose of some sleeping-draught.” He
sniffed. “Rather an odour of chloral in the air.”

Tuppence remembered the glass she had upset. A new thought drove her to
the washstand. She found the little bottle from which Mrs. Vandemeyer
had poured a few drops.

It had been three parts full. Now-- _it was empty_.



CHAPTER XIV. A CONSULTATION

NOTHING was more surprising and bewildering to Tuppence than the ease
and simplicity with which everything was arranged, owing to Sir James’s
skilful handling. The doctor accepted quite readily the theory that Mrs.
Vandemeyer had accidentally taken an overdose of chloral. He doubted
whether an inquest would be necessary. If so, he would let Sir James
know. He understood that Mrs. Vandemeyer was on the eve of departure for
abroad, and that the servants had already left? Sir James and his young
friends had been paying a call upon her, when she was suddenly stricken
down and they had spent the night in the flat, not liking to leave
her alone. Did they know of any relatives? They did not, but Sir James
referred him to Mrs. Vandemeyer’s solicitor.

Shortly afterwards a nurse arrived to take charge, and the other left
the ill-omened building.

“And what now?” asked Julius, with a gesture of despair. “I guess we’re
down and out for good.”

Sir James stroked his chin thoughtfully.

“No,” he said quietly. “There is still the chance that Dr. Hall may be
able to tell us something.”

“Gee! I’d forgotten him.”

“The chance is slight, but it must not be neglected. I think I told you
that he is staying at the _Métropole_. I should suggest that we call
upon him there as soon as possible. Shall we say after a bath and
breakfast?”

It was arranged that Tuppence and Julius should return to the _Ritz_,
and call for Sir James in the car. This programme was faithfully carried
out, and a little after eleven they drew up before the _Métropole_.
They asked for Dr. Hall, and a page-boy went in search of him. In a few
minutes the little doctor came hurrying towards them.

“Can you spare us a few minutes, Dr. Hall?” said Sir James pleasantly.
“Let me introduce you to Miss Cowley. Mr. Hersheimmer, I think, you
already know.”

A quizzical gleam came into the doctor’s eye as he shook hands with
Julius.

“Ah, yes, my young friend of the tree episode! Ankle all right, eh?”

“I guess it’s cured owing to your skilful treatment, doc.”

“And the heart trouble? Ha ha!”

“Still searching,” said Julius briefly.

“To come to the point, can we have a word with you in private?” asked
Sir James.

“Certainly. I think there is a room here where we shall be quite
undisturbed.”

He led the way, and the others followed him. They sat down, and the
doctor looked inquiringly at Sir James.

“Dr. Hall, I am very anxious to find a certain young lady for the
purpose of obtaining a statement from her. I have reason to believe
that she has been at one time or another in your establishment at
Bournemouth. I hope I am transgressing no professional etiquette in
questioning you on the subject?”

“I suppose it is a matter of testimony?”

Sir James hesitated a moment, then he replied:

“Yes.”

“I shall be pleased to give you any information in my power. What is
the young lady’s name? Mr. Hersheimmer asked me, I remember----” He half
turned to Julius.

“The name,” said Sir James bluntly, “is really immaterial. She would be
almost certainly sent to you under an assumed one. But I should like to
know if you are acquainted with a Mrs. Vandemeyer?”

“Mrs. Vandemeyer, of 20 South Audley Mansions? I know her slightly.”

“You are not aware of what has happened?”

“What do you mean?”

“You do not know that Mrs. Vandemeyer is dead?”

“Dear, dear, I had no idea of it! When did it happen?”

“She took an overdose of chloral last night.”

“Purposely?”

“Accidentally, it is believed. I should not like to say myself. Anyway,
she was found dead this morning.”

“Very sad. A singularly handsome woman. I presume she was a friend of
yours, since you are acquainted with all these details.”

“I am acquainted with the details because--well, it was I who found her
dead.”

“Indeed,” said the doctor, starting.

“Yes,” said Sir James, and stroked his chin reflectively.

“This is very sad news, but you will excuse me if I say that I do not
see how it bears on the subject of your inquiry?”

“It bears on it in this way, is it not a fact that Mrs. Vandemeyer
committed a young relative of hers to your charge?”

Julius leaned forward eagerly.

“That is the case,” said the doctor quietly.

“Under the name of----?”

“Janet Vandemeyer. I understood her to be a niece of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s.”

“And she came to you?”

“As far as I can remember in June or July of 1915.”

“Was she a mental case?”

“She is perfectly sane, if that is what you mean. I understood from Mrs.
Vandemeyer that the girl had been with her on the _Lusitania_ when
that ill-fated ship was sunk, and had suffered a severe shock in
consequence.”

“We’re on the right track, I think?” Sir James looked round.

“As I said before, I’m a mutt!” returned Julius.

The doctor looked at them all curiously.

“You spoke of wanting a statement from her,” he said. “Supposing she is
not able to give one?”

“What? You have just said that she is perfectly sane.”

“So she is. Nevertheless, if you want a statement from her concerning
any events prior to May 7, 1915, she will not be able to give it to
you.”

They looked at the little man, stupefied. He nodded cheerfully.

“It’s a pity,” he said. “A great pity, especially as I gather, Sir
James, that the matter is important. But there it is, she can tell you
nothing.”

“But why, man? Darn it all, why?”

The little man shifted his benevolent glance to the excited young
American.

“Because Janet Vandemeyer is suffering from a complete loss of memory.”

_“What?”_

“Quite so. An interesting case, a _very_ interesting case. Not so
uncommon, really, as you would think. There are several very well known
parallels. It’s the first case of the kind that I’ve had under my own
personal observation, and I must admit that I’ve found it of absorbing
interest.” There was something rather ghoulish in the little man’s
satisfaction.

“And she remembers nothing,” said Sir James slowly.

“Nothing prior to May 7, 1915. After that date her memory is as good as
yours or mine.”

“Then the first thing she remembers?”

“Is landing with the survivors. Everything before that is a blank. She
did not know her own name, or where she had come from, or where she was.
She couldn’t even speak her own tongue.”

“But surely all this is most unusual?” put in Julius.

“No, my dear sir. Quite normal under the circumstances. Severe shock to
the nervous system. Loss of memory proceeds nearly always on the same
lines. I suggested a specialist, of course. There’s a very good man in
Paris--makes a study of these cases--but Mrs. Vandemeyer opposed the
idea of publicity that might result from such a course.”

“I can imagine she would,” said Sir James grimly.

“I fell in with her views. There is a certain notoriety given to these
cases. And the girl was very young--nineteen, I believe. It seemed
a pity that her infirmity should be talked about--might damage her
prospects. Besides, there is no special treatment to pursue in such
cases. It is really a matter of waiting.”

“Waiting?”

“Yes, sooner or later, the memory will return--as suddenly as it
went. But in all probability the girl will have entirely forgotten the
intervening period, and will take up life where she left off--at the
sinking of the _Lusitania_.”

“And when do you expect this to happen?”

The doctor shrugged his shoulders.

“Ah, that I cannot say. Sometimes it is a matter of months, sometimes
it has been known to be as long as twenty years! Sometimes another shock
does the trick. One restores what the other took away.”

“Another shock, eh?” said Julius thoughtfully.

“Exactly. There was a case in Colorado----” The little man’s voice
trailed on, voluble, mildly enthusiastic.

Julius did not seem to be listening. He had relapsed into his own
thoughts and was frowning. Suddenly he came out of his brown study,
and hit the table such a resounding bang with his fist that every one
jumped, the doctor most of all.

“I’ve got it! I guess, doc, I’d like your medical opinion on the plan
I’m about to outline. Say Jane was to cross the herring pond again, and
the same thing was to happen. The submarine, the sinking ship, every one
to take to the boats--and so on. Wouldn’t that do the trick? Wouldn’t it
give a mighty big bump to her subconscious self, or whatever the jargon
is, and start it functioning again right away?”

“A very interesting speculation, Mr. Hersheimmer. In my own opinion, it
would be successful. It is unfortunate that there is no chance of the
conditions repeating themselves as you suggest.”

“Not by nature, perhaps, doc. But I’m talking about art.”

“Art?”

“Why, yes. What’s the difficulty? Hire a liner----”

“A liner!” murmured Dr. Hall faintly.

“Hire some passengers, hire a submarine--that’s the only difficulty, I
guess. Governments are apt to be a bit hide-bound over their engines of
war. They won’t sell to the first-comer. Still, I guess that can be got
over. Ever heard of the word ‘graft,’ sir? Well, graft gets there every
time! I reckon that we shan’t really need to fire a torpedo. If every
one hustles round and screams loud enough that the ship is sinking, it
ought to be enough for an innocent young girl like Jane. By the time
she’s got a life-belt on her, and is being hustled into a boat, with
a well-drilled lot of artistes doing the hysterical stunt on deck,
why--she ought to be right back where she was in May, 1915. How’s that
for the bare outline?”

Dr. Hall looked at Julius. Everything that he was for the moment
incapable of saying was eloquent in that look.

“No,” said Julius, in answer to it, “I’m not crazy. The thing’s
perfectly possible. It’s done every day in the States for the movies.
Haven’t you seen trains in collision on the screen? What’s the
difference between buying up a train and buying up a liner? Get the
properties and you can go right ahead!”

Dr. Hall found his voice.

“But the expense, my dear sir.” His voice rose. “The expense! It will be
_colossal!_”

“Money doesn’t worry me any,” explained Julius simply.

Dr. Hall turned an appealing face to Sir James, who smiled slightly.

“Mr. Hersheimmer is very well off--very well off indeed.”

The doctor’s glance came back to Julius with a new and subtle quality in
it. This was no longer an eccentric young fellow with a habit of falling
off trees. The doctor’s eyes held the deference accorded to a really
rich man.

“Very remarkable plan. Very remarkable,” he murmured. “The movies--of
course! Your American word for the kinema. Very interesting. I fear we
are perhaps a little behind the times over here in our methods. And you
really mean to carry out this remarkable plan of yours.”

“You bet your bottom dollar I do.”

The doctor believed him--which was a tribute to his nationality. If an
Englishman had suggested such a thing, he would have had grave doubts as
to his sanity.

“I cannot guarantee a cure,” he pointed out. “Perhaps I ought to make
that quite clear.”

“Sure, that’s all right,” said Julius. “You just trot out Jane, and
leave the rest to me.”

“Jane?”

“Miss Janet Vandemeyer, then. Can we get on the long distance to your
place right away, and ask them to send her up; or shall I run down and
fetch her in my car?”

The doctor stared.

“I beg your pardon, Mr. Hersheimmer. I thought you understood.”

“Understood what?”

“That Miss Vandemeyer is no longer under my care.”



CHAPTER XV. TUPPENCE RECEIVES A PROPOSAL

JULIUS sprang up.

“What?”

“I thought you were aware of that.”

“When did she leave?”

“Let me see. To-day is Monday, is it not? It must have been last
Wednesday--why, surely--yes, it was the same evening that you--er--fell
out of my tree.”

“That evening? Before, or after?”

“Let me see--oh yes, afterwards. A very urgent message arrived from Mrs.
Vandemeyer. The young lady and the nurse who was in charge of her left
by the night train.”

Julius sank back again into his chair.

“Nurse Edith--left with a patient--I remember,” he muttered. “My God, to
have been so near!”

Dr. Hall looked bewildered.

“I don’t understand. Is the young lady not with her aunt, after all?”

Tuppence shook her head. She was about to speak when a warning glance
from Sir James made her hold her tongue. The lawyer rose.

“I’m much obliged to you, Hall. We’re very grateful for all you’ve
told us. I’m afraid we’re now in the position of having to track Miss
Vandemeyer anew. What about the nurse who accompanied her; I suppose you
don’t know where she is?”

The doctor shook his head.

“We’ve not heard from her, as it happens. I understood she was to remain
with Miss Vandemeyer for a while. But what can have happened? Surely the
girl has not been kidnapped.”

“That remains to be seen,” said Sir James gravely.

The other hesitated.

“You do not think I ought to go to the police?”

“No, no. In all probability the young lady is with other relations.”

The doctor was not completely satisfied, but he saw that Sir James was
determined to say no more, and realized that to try and extract
more information from the famous K.C. would be mere waste of labour.
Accordingly, he wished them goodbye, and they left the hotel. For a few
minutes they stood by the car talking.

“How maddening,” cried Tuppence. “To think that Julius must have been
actually under the same roof with her for a few hours.”

“I was a darned idiot,” muttered Julius gloomily.

“You couldn’t know,” Tuppence consoled him. “Could he?” She appealed to
Sir James.

“I should advise you not to worry,” said the latter kindly. “No use
crying over spilt milk, you know.”

“The great thing is what to do next,” added Tuppence the practical.

Sir James shrugged his shoulders.

“You might advertise for the nurse who accompanied the girl. That is
the only course I can suggest, and I must confess I do not hope for much
result. Otherwise there is nothing to be done.”

“Nothing?” said Tuppence blankly. “And--Tommy?”

“We must hope for the best,” said Sir James. “Oh yes, we must go on
hoping.”

But over her downcast head his eyes met Julius’s, and almost
imperceptibly he shook his head. Julius understood. The lawyer
considered the case hopeless. The young American’s face grew grave. Sir
James took Tuppence’s hand.

“You must let me know if anything further comes to light. Letters will
always be forwarded.”

Tuppence stared at him blankly.

“You are going away?”

“I told you. Don’t you remember? To Scotland.”

“Yes, but I thought----” The girl hesitated.

Sir James shrugged his shoulders.

“My dear young lady, I can do nothing more, I fear. Our clues have all
ended in thin air. You can take my word for it that there is nothing
more to be done. If anything should arise, I shall be glad to advise you
in any way I can.”

His words gave Tuppence an extraordinarily desolate feeling.

“I suppose you’re right,” she said. “Anyway, thank you very much for
trying to help us. Good-bye.”

Julius was bending over the car. A momentary pity came into Sir James’s
keen eyes, as he gazed into the girl’s downcast face.

“Don’t be too disconsolate, Miss Tuppence,” he said in a low voice.
“Remember, holiday-time isn’t always all playtime. One sometimes manages
to put in some work as well.”

Something in his tone made Tuppence glance up sharply. He shook his head
with a smile.

“No, I shan’t say any more. Great mistake to say too much. Remember
that. Never tell all you know--not even to the person you know best.
Understand? Good-bye.”

He strode away. Tuppence stared after him. She was beginning to
understand Sir James’s methods. Once before he had thrown her a hint
in the same careless fashion. Was this a hint? What exactly lay
behind those last brief words? Did he mean that, after all, he had not
abandoned the case; that, secretly, he would be working on it still
while----

Her meditations were interrupted by Julius, who adjured her to “get
right in.”

“You’re looking kind of thoughtful,” he remarked as they started off.
“Did the old guy say anything more?”

Tuppence opened her mouth impulsively, and then shut it again. Sir
James’s words sounded in her ears: “Never tell all you know--not even
to the person you know best.” And like a flash there came into her mind
another memory. Julius before the safe in the flat, her own question and
the pause before his reply, “Nothing.” Was there really nothing? Or
had he found something he wished to keep to himself? If he could make a
reservation, so could she.

“Nothing particular,” she replied.

She felt rather than saw Julius throw a sideways glance at her.

“Say, shall we go for a spin in the park?”

“If you like.”

For a while they ran on under the trees in silence. It was a beautiful
day. The keen rush through the air brought a new exhilaration to
Tuppence.

“Say, Miss Tuppence, do you think I’m ever going to find Jane?”

Julius spoke in a discouraged voice. The mood was so alien to him that
Tuppence turned and stared at him in surprise. He nodded.

“That’s so. I’m getting down and out over the business. Sir James to-day
hadn’t got any hope at all, I could see that. I don’t like him--we don’t
gee together somehow--but he’s pretty cute, and I guess he wouldn’t quit
if there was any chance of success--now, would he?”

Tuppence felt rather uncomfortable, but clinging to her belief that
Julius also had withheld something from her, she remained firm.

“He suggested advertising for the nurse,” she reminded him.

“Yes, with a ‘forlorn hope’ flavour to his voice! No--I’m about fed up.
I’ve half a mind to go back to the States right away.”

“Oh no!” cried Tuppence. “We’ve got to find Tommy.”

“I sure forgot Beresford,” said Julius contritely. “That’s so. We must
find him. But after--well, I’ve been day-dreaming ever since I started
on this trip--and these dreams are rotten poor business. I’m quit of
them. Say, Miss Tuppence, there’s something I’d like to ask you.”

“Yes?”

“You and Beresford. What about it?”

“I don’t understand you,” replied Tuppence with dignity, adding rather
inconsequently: “And, anyway, you’re wrong!”

“Not got a sort of kindly feeling for one another?”

“Certainly not,” said Tuppence with warmth. “Tommy and I are
friends--nothing more.”

“I guess every pair of lovers has said that sometime or another,”
 observed Julius.

“Nonsense!” snapped Tuppence. “Do I look the sort of girl that’s always
falling in love with every man she meets?”

“You do not. You look the sort of girl that’s mighty often getting
fallen in love with!”

“Oh!” said Tuppence, rather taken aback. “That’s a compliment, I
suppose?”

“Sure. Now let’s get down to this. Supposing we never find Beresford
and--and----”

“All right--say it! I can face facts. Supposing he’s--dead! Well?”

“And all this business fiddles out. What are you going to do?”

“I don’t know,” said Tuppence forlornly.

“You’ll be darned lonesome, you poor kid.”

“I shall be all right,” snapped Tuppence with her usual resentment of
any kind of pity.

“What about marriage?” inquired Julius. “Got any views on the subject?”

“I intend to marry, of course,” replied Tuppence. “That is, if”--she
paused, knew a momentary longing to draw back, and then stuck to her
guns bravely--“I can find some one rich enough to make it worth my
while. That’s frank, isn’t it? I dare say you despise me for it.”

“I never despise business instinct,” said Julius. “What particular
figure have you in mind?”

“Figure?” asked Tuppence, puzzled. “Do you mean tall or short?”

“No. Sum--income.”

“Oh, I--I haven’t quite worked that out.”

“What about me?”

_“You?”_

“Sure thing.”

“Oh, I couldn’t!”

“Why not?”

“I tell you I couldn’t.”

“Again, why not?”

“It would seem so unfair.”

“I don’t see anything unfair about it. I call your bluff, that’s all. I
admire you immensely, Miss Tuppence, more than any girl I’ve ever met.
You’re so darned plucky. I’d just love to give you a real, rattling good
time. Say the word, and we’ll run round right away to some high-class
jeweller, and fix up the ring business.”

“I can’t,” gasped Tuppence.

“Because of Beresford?”

“No, no, _no!_”

“Well then?”

Tuppence merely continued to shake her head violently.

“You can’t reasonably expect more dollars than I’ve got.”

“Oh, it isn’t that,” gasped Tuppence with an almost hysterical laugh.
“But thanking you very much, and all that, I think I’d better say no.”

“I’d be obliged if you’d do me the favour to think it over until
to-morrow.”

“It’s no use.”

“Still, I guess we’ll leave it like that.”

“Very well,” said Tuppence meekly.

Neither of them spoke again until they reached the _Ritz_.

Tuppence went upstairs to her room. She felt morally battered to the
ground after her conflict with Julius’s vigorous personality. Sitting
down in front of the glass, she stared at her own reflection for some
minutes.

“Fool,” murmured Tuppence at length, making a grimace. “Little fool.
Everything you want--everything you’ve ever hoped for, and you go and
bleat out ‘no’ like an idiotic little sheep. It’s your one chance. Why
don’t you take it? Grab it? Snatch at it? What more do you want?”

As if in answer to her own question, her eyes fell on a small snapshot
of Tommy that stood on her dressing-table in a shabby frame. For a
moment she struggled for self-control, and then abandoning all presence,
she held it to her lips and burst into a fit of sobbing.

“Oh, Tommy, Tommy,” she cried, “I do love you so--and I may never see
you again....”

At the end of five minutes Tuppence sat up, blew her nose, and pushed
back her hair.

“That’s that,” she observed sternly. “Let’s look facts in the face. I
seem to have fallen in love--with an idiot of a boy who probably doesn’t
care two straws about me.” Here she paused. “Anyway,” she resumed, as
though arguing with an unseen opponent, “I don’t _know_ that he does.
He’d never have dared to say so. I’ve always jumped on sentiment--and
here I am being more sentimental than anybody. What idiots girls are!
I’ve always thought so. I suppose I shall sleep with his photograph
under my pillow, and dream about him all night. It’s dreadful to feel
you’ve been false to your principles.”

Tuppence shook her head sadly, as she reviewed her backsliding.

“I don’t know what to say to Julius, I’m sure. Oh, what a fool I feel!
I’ll have to say _something_--he’s so American and thorough, he’ll
insist upon having a reason. I wonder if he did find anything in that
safe----”

Tuppence’s meditations went off on another tack. She reviewed the events
of last night carefully and persistently. Somehow, they seemed bound up
with Sir James’s enigmatical words....

Suddenly she gave a great start--the colour faded out of her face. Her
eyes, fascinated, gazed in front of her, the pupils dilated.

“Impossible,” she murmured. “Impossible! I must be going mad even to
think of such a thing....”

Monstrous--yet it explained everything....

After a moment’s reflection she sat down and wrote a note, weighing each
word as she did so. Finally she nodded her head as though satisfied, and
slipped it into an envelope which she addressed to Julius. She went
down the passage to his sitting-room and knocked at the door. As she had
expected, the room was empty. She left the note on the table.

A small page-boy was waiting outside her own door when she returned to
it.

“Telegram for you, miss.”

Tuppence took it from the salver, and tore it open carelessly. Then she
gave a cry. The telegram was from Tommy!



CHAPTER XVI. FURTHER ADVENTURES OF TOMMY

FROM a darkness punctuated with throbbing stabs of fire, Tommy dragged
his senses slowly back to life. When he at last opened his eyes, he was
conscious of nothing but an excruciating pain through his temples. He
was vaguely aware of unfamiliar surroundings. Where was he? What had
happened? He blinked feebly. This was not his bedroom at the _Ritz_. And
what the devil was the matter with his head?

“Damn!” said Tommy, and tried to sit up. He had remembered. He was in
that sinister house in Soho. He uttered a groan and fell back. Through
his almost-closed lids he reconnoitred carefully.

“He is coming to,” remarked a voice very near Tommy’s ear. He recognized
it at once for that of the bearded and efficient German, and lay
artistically inert. He felt that it would be a pity to come round too
soon; and until the pain in his head became a little less acute, he felt
quite incapable of collecting his wits. Painfully he tried to puzzle out
what had happened. Obviously somebody must have crept up behind him as
he listened and struck him down with a blow on the head. They knew
him now for a spy, and would in all probability give him short shrift.
Undoubtedly he was in a tight place. Nobody knew where he was, therefore
he need expect no outside assistance, and must depend solely on his own
wits.

“Well, here goes,” murmured Tommy to himself, and repeated his former
remark.

“Damn!” he observed, and this time succeeded in sitting up.

In a minute the German stepped forward and placed a glass to his lips,
with the brief command “Drink.” Tommy obeyed. The potency of the draught
made him choke, but it cleared his brain in a marvellous manner.

He was lying on a couch in the room in which the meeting had been held.
On one side of him was the German, on the other the villainous-faced
doorkeeper who had let him in. The others were grouped together at a
little distance away. But Tommy missed one face. The man known as Number
One was no longer of the company.

“Feel better?” asked the German, as he removed the empty glass.

“Yes, thanks,” returned Tommy cheerfully.

“Ah, my young friend, it is lucky for you your skull is so thick. The
good Conrad struck hard.” He indicated the evil-faced doorkeeper by a
nod. The man grinned.

Tommy twisted his head round with an effort.

“Oh,” he said, “so you’re Conrad, are you? It strikes me the thickness
of my skull was lucky for you too. When I look at you I feel it’s almost
a pity I’ve enabled you to cheat the hangman.”

The man snarled, and the bearded man said quietly:

“He would have run no risk of that.”

“Just as you like,” replied Tommy. “I know it’s the fashion to run down
the police. I rather believe in them myself.”

His manner was nonchalant to the last degree. Tommy Beresford was one
of those young Englishmen not distinguished by any special intellectual
ability, but who are emphatically at their best in what is known as a
“tight place.” Their natural diffidence and caution fall from them like
a glove. Tommy realized perfectly that in his own wits lay the only
chance of escape, and behind his casual manner he was racking his brains
furiously.

The cold accents of the German took up the conversation:

“Have you anything to say before you are put to death as a spy?”

“Simply lots of things,” replied Tommy with the same urbanity as before.

“Do you deny that you were listening at that door?”

“I do not. I must really apologize--but your conversation was so
interesting that it overcame my scruples.”

“How did you get in?”

“Dear old Conrad here.” Tommy smiled deprecatingly at him. “I hesitate
to suggest pensioning off a faithful servant, but you really ought to
have a better watchdog.”

Conrad snarled impotently, and said sullenly, as the man with the beard
swung round upon him:

“He gave the word. How was I to know?”

“Yes,” Tommy chimed in. “How was he to know? Don’t blame the poor
fellow. His hasty action has given me the pleasure of seeing you all
face to face.”

He fancied that his words caused some discomposure among the group, but
the watchful German stilled it with a wave of his hand.

“Dead men tell no tales,” he said evenly.

“Ah,” said Tommy, “but I’m not dead yet!”

“You soon will be, my young friend,” said the German.

An assenting murmur came from the others.

Tommy’s heart beat faster, but his casual pleasantness did not waver.

“I think not,” he said firmly. “I should have a great objection to
dying.”

He had got them puzzled, he saw that by the look on his captor’s face.

“Can you give us any reason why we should not put you to death?” asked
the German.

“Several,” replied Tommy. “Look here, you’ve been asking me a lot of
questions. Let me ask you one for a change. Why didn’t you kill me off
at once before I regained consciousness?”

The German hesitated, and Tommy seized his advantage.

“Because you didn’t know how much I knew--and where I obtained that
knowledge. If you kill me now, you never will know.”

But here the emotions of Boris became too much for him. He stepped
forward waving his arms.

“You hell-hound of a spy,” he screamed. “We will give you short shrift.
Kill him! Kill him!”

There was a roar of applause.

“You hear?” said the German, his eyes on Tommy. “What have you to say to
that?”

“Say?” Tommy shrugged his shoulders. “Pack of fools. Let them ask
themselves a few questions. How did I get into this place? Remember what
dear old Conrad said-- _with your own password_, wasn’t it? How did I
get hold of that? You don’t suppose I came up those steps haphazard and
said the first thing that came into my head?”

Tommy was pleased with the concluding words of this speech. His only
regret was that Tuppence was not present to appreciate its full flavour.

“That is true,” said the working man suddenly. “Comrades, we have been
betrayed!”

An ugly murmur arose. Tommy smiled at them encouragingly.

“That’s better. How can you hope to make a success of any job if you
don’t use your brains?”

“You will tell us who has betrayed us,” said the German. “But that shall
not save you--oh, no! You shall tell us all that you know. Boris, here,
knows pretty ways of making people speak!”

“Bah!” said Tommy scornfully, fighting down a singularly unpleasant
feeling in the pit of his stomach. “You will neither torture me nor kill
me.”

“And why not?” asked Boris.

“Because you’d kill the goose that lays the golden eggs,” replied Tommy
quietly.

There was a momentary pause. It seemed as though Tommy’s persistent
assurance was at last conquering. They were no longer completely sure of
themselves. The man in the shabby clothes stared at Tommy searchingly.

“He’s bluffing you, Boris,” he said quietly.

Tommy hated him. Had the man seen through him?

The German, with an effort, turned roughly to Tommy.

“What do you mean?”

“What do you think I mean?” parried Tommy, searching desperately in his
own mind.

Suddenly Boris stepped forward, and shook his fist in Tommy’s face.

“Speak, you swine of an Englishman--speak!”

“Don’t get so excited, my good fellow,” said Tommy calmly. “That’s the
worst of you foreigners. You can’t keep calm. Now, I ask you, do I look
as though I thought there were the least chance of your killing me?”

He looked confidently round, and was glad they could not hear the
persistent beating of his heart which gave the lie to his words.

“No,” admitted Boris at last sullenly, “you do not.”

“Thank God, he’s not a mind reader,” thought Tommy. Aloud he pursued his
advantage:

“And why am I so confident? Because I know something that puts me in a
position to propose a bargain.”

“A bargain?” The bearded man took him up sharply.

“Yes--a bargain. My life and liberty against----” He paused.

“Against what?”

The group pressed forward. You could have heard a pin drop.

Slowly Tommy spoke.

“The papers that Danvers brought over from America in the _Lusitania_.”

The effect of his words was electrical. Every one was on his feet.
The German waved them back. He leaned over Tommy, his face purple with
excitement.

“_Himmel!_ You have got them, then?”

With magnificent calm Tommy shook his head.

“You know where they are?” persisted the German.

Again Tommy shook his head. “Not in the least.”

“Then--then----” angry and baffled, the words failed him.

Tommy looked round. He saw anger and bewilderment on every face, but his
calm assurance had done its work--no one doubted but that something lay
behind his words.

“I don’t know where the papers are--but I believe that I can find them.
I have a theory----”

“Pah!”

Tommy raised his hand, and silenced the clamours of disgust.

“I call it a theory--but I’m pretty sure of my facts--facts that are
known to no one but myself. In any case what do you lose? If I can
produce the papers--you give me my life and liberty in exchange. Is it a
bargain?”

“And if we refuse?” said the German quietly.

Tommy lay back on the couch.

“The 29th,” he said thoughtfully, “is less than a fortnight ahead----”

For a moment the German hesitated. Then he made a sign to Conrad.

“Take him into the other room.”

For five minutes, Tommy sat on the bed in the dingy room next door. His
heart was beating violently. He had risked all on this throw. How would
they decide? And all the while that this agonized questioning went on
within him, he talked flippantly to Conrad, enraging the cross-grained
doorkeeper to the point of homicidal mania.

At last the door opened, and the German called imperiously to Conrad to
return.

“Let’s hope the judge hasn’t put his black cap on,” remarked Tommy
frivolously. “That’s right, Conrad, march me in. The prisoner is at the
bar, gentlemen.”

The German was seated once more behind the table. He motioned to Tommy
to sit down opposite to him.

“We accept,” he said harshly, “on terms. The papers must be delivered to
us before you go free.”

“Idiot!” said Tommy amiably. “How do you think I can look for them if
you keep me tied by the leg here?”

“What do you expect, then?”

“I must have liberty to go about the business in my own way.”

The German laughed.

“Do you think we are little children to let you walk out of here leaving
us a pretty story full of promises?”

“No,” said Tommy thoughtfully. “Though infinitely simpler for me, I
did not really think you would agree to that plan. Very well, we must
arrange a compromise. How would it be if you attached little Conrad here
to my person. He’s a faithful fellow, and very ready with the fist.”

“We prefer,” said the German coldly, “that you should remain here.
One of our number will carry out your instructions minutely. If the
operations are complicated, he will return to you with a report and you
can instruct him further.”

“You’re tying my hands,” complained Tommy. “It’s a very delicate affair,
and the other fellow will muff it up as likely as not, and then where
shall I be? I don’t believe one of you has got an ounce of tact.”

The German rapped the table.

“Those are our terms. Otherwise, death!”

Tommy leaned back wearily.

“I like your style. Curt, but attractive. So be it, then. But one thing
is essential, I must see the girl.”

“What girl?”

“Jane Finn, of course.”

The other looked at him curiously for some minutes, then he said slowly,
and as though choosing his words with care:

“Do you not know that she can tell you nothing?”

Tommy’s heart beat a little faster. Would he succeed in coming face to
face with the girl he was seeking?

“I shall not ask her to tell me anything,” he said quietly. “Not in so
many words, that is.”

“Then why see her?”

Tommy paused.

“To watch her face when I ask her one question,” he replied at last.

Again there was a look in the German’s eyes that Tommy did not quite
understand.

“She will not be able to answer your question.”

“That does not matter. I shall have seen her face when I ask it.”

“And you think that will tell you anything?” He gave a short
disagreeable laugh. More than ever, Tommy felt that there was a
factor somewhere that he did not understand. The German looked at
him searchingly. “I wonder whether, after all, you know as much as we
think?” he said softly.

Tommy felt his ascendancy less sure than a moment before. His hold had
slipped a little. But he was puzzled. What had he said wrong? He spoke
out on the impulse of the moment.

“There may be things that you know which I do not. I have not pretended
to be aware of all the details of your show. But equally I’ve got
something up my sleeve that _you_ don’t know about. And that’s where I
mean to score. Danvers was a damned clever fellow----” He broke off as
if he had said too much.

But the German’s face had lightened a little.

“Danvers,” he murmured. “I see----” He paused a minute, then waved to
Conrad. “Take him away. Upstairs--you know.”

“Wait a minute,” said Tommy. “What about the girl?”

“That may perhaps be arranged.”

“It must be.”

“We will see about it. Only one person can decide that.”

“Who?” asked Tommy. But he knew the answer.

“Mr. Brown----”

“Shall I see him?”

“Perhaps.”

“Come,” said Conrad harshly.

Tommy rose obediently. Outside the door his gaoler motioned to him to
mount the stairs. He himself followed close behind. On the floor above
Conrad opened a door and Tommy passed into a small room. Conrad lit a
hissing gas burner and went out. Tommy heard the sound of the key being
turned in the lock.

He set to work to examine his prison. It was a smaller room than the
one downstairs, and there was something peculiarly airless about the
atmosphere of it. Then he realized that there was no window. He walked
round it. The walls were filthily dirty, as everywhere else. Four
pictures hung crookedly on the wall representing scenes from Faust.
Marguerite with her box of jewels, the church scene, Siebel and his
flowers, and Faust and Mephistopheles. The latter brought Tommy’s mind
back to Mr. Brown again. In this sealed and closed chamber, with its
close-fitting heavy door, he felt cut off from the world, and the
sinister power of the arch-criminal seemed more real. Shout as he would,
no one could ever hear him. The place was a living tomb....

With an effort Tommy pulled himself together. He sank on to the bed
and gave himself up to reflection. His head ached badly; also, he was
hungry. The silence of the place was dispiriting.

“Anyway,” said Tommy, trying to cheer himself, “I shall see the
chief--the mysterious Mr. Brown and with a bit of luck in bluffing I
shall see the mysterious Jane Finn also. After that----”

After that Tommy was forced to admit the prospect looked dreary.



CHAPTER XVII. ANNETTE

THE troubles of the future, however, soon faded before the troubles of
the present. And of these, the most immediate and pressing was that of
hunger. Tommy had a healthy and vigorous appetite. The steak and
chips partaken of for lunch seemed now to belong to another decade. He
regretfully recognized the fact that he would not make a success of a
hunger strike.

He prowled aimlessly about his prison. Once or twice he discarded
dignity, and pounded on the door. But nobody answered the summons.

“Hang it all!” said Tommy indignantly. “They can’t mean to starve me
to death.” A new-born fear passed through his mind that this might,
perhaps, be one of those “pretty ways” of making a prisoner speak, which
had been attributed to Boris. But on reflection he dismissed the idea.

“It’s that sour-faced brute Conrad,” he decided. “That’s a fellow I
shall enjoy getting even with one of these days. This is just a bit of
spite on his part. I’m certain of it.”

Further meditations induced in him the feeling that it would be
extremely pleasant to bring something down with a whack on Conrad’s
egg-shaped head. Tommy stroked his own head tenderly, and gave himself
up to the pleasures of imagination. Finally a bright idea flashed
across his brain. Why not convert imagination into reality? Conrad
was undoubtedly the tenant of the house. The others, with the possible
exception of the bearded German, merely used it as a rendezvous.
Therefore, why not wait in ambush for Conrad behind the door, and when
he entered bring down a chair, or one of the decrepit pictures, smartly
on to his head. One would, of course, be careful not to hit too hard.
And then--and then, simply walk out! If he met anyone on the way down,
well---- Tommy brightened at the thought of an encounter with his fists.
Such an affair was infinitely more in his line than the verbal encounter
of this afternoon. Intoxicated by his plan, Tommy gently unhooked the
picture of the Devil and Faust, and settled himself in position. His
hopes were high. The plan seemed to him simple but excellent.

Time went on, but Conrad did not appear. Night and day were the same
in this prison room, but Tommy’s wrist-watch, which enjoyed a certain
degree of accuracy, informed him that it was nine o’clock in the
evening. Tommy reflected gloomily that if supper did not arrive soon
it would be a question of waiting for breakfast. At ten o’clock hope
deserted him, and he flung himself on the bed to seek consolation in
sleep. In five minutes his woes were forgotten.

The sound of the key turning in the lock awoke him from his slumbers.
Not belonging to the type of hero who is famous for awaking in full
possession of his faculties, Tommy merely blinked at the ceiling and
wondered vaguely where he was. Then he remembered, and looked at his
watch. It was eight o’clock.

“It’s either early morning tea or breakfast,” deduced the young man,
“and pray God it’s the latter!”

The door swung open. Too late, Tommy remembered his scheme of
obliterating the unprepossessing Conrad. A moment later he was glad that
he had, for it was not Conrad who entered, but a girl. She carried a
tray which she set down on the table.

In the feeble light of the gas burner Tommy blinked at her. He decided
at once that she was one of the most beautiful girls he had ever seen.
Her hair was a full rich brown, with sudden glints of gold in it as
though there were imprisoned sunbeams struggling in its depths. There
was a wild-rose quality about her face. Her eyes, set wide apart, were
hazel, a golden hazel that again recalled a memory of sunbeams.

A delirious thought shot through Tommy’s mind.

“Are you Jane Finn?” he asked breathlessly.

The girl shook her head wonderingly.

“My name is Annette, monsieur.”

She spoke in a soft, broken English.

“Oh!” said Tommy, rather taken aback. _“Française?”_ he hazarded.

“Oui, monsieur. Monsieur parle français?”

“Not for any length of time,” said Tommy. “What’s that? Breakfast?”

The girl nodded. Tommy dropped off the bed and came and inspected the
contents of the tray. It consisted of a loaf, some margarine, and a jug
of coffee.

“The living is not equal to the _Ritz_,” he observed with a sigh. “But
for what we are at last about to receive the Lord has made me truly
thankful. Amen.”

He drew up a chair, and the girl turned away to the door.

“Wait a sec,” cried Tommy. “There are lots of things I want to ask you,
Annette. What are you doing in this house? Don’t tell me you’re Conrad’s
niece, or daughter, or anything, because I can’t believe it.”

“I do the _service_, monsieur. I am not related to anybody.”

“I see,” said Tommy. “You know what I asked you just now. Have you ever
heard that name?”

“I have heard people speak of Jane Finn, I think.”

“You don’t know where she is?”

Annette shook her head.

“She’s not in this house, for instance?”

“Oh no, monsieur. I must go now--they will be waiting for me.”

She hurried out. The key turned in the lock.

“I wonder who ‘they’ are,” mused Tommy, as he continued to make inroads
on the loaf. “With a bit of luck, that girl might help me to get out of
here. She doesn’t look like one of the gang.”

At one o’clock Annette reappeared with another tray, but this time
Conrad accompanied her.

“Good morning,” said Tommy amiably. “You have _not_ used Pear’s soap, I
see.”

Conrad growled threateningly.

“No light repartee, have you, old bean? There, there, we can’t always
have brains as well as beauty. What have we for lunch? Stew? How did I
know? Elementary, my dear Watson--the smell of onions is unmistakable.”

“Talk away,” grunted the man. “It’s little enough time you’ll have to
talk in, maybe.”

The remark was unpleasant in its suggestion, but Tommy ignored it. He
sat down at the table.

“Retire, varlet,” he said, with a wave of his hand. “Prate not to thy
betters.”

That evening Tommy sat on the bed, and cogitated deeply. Would Conrad
again accompany the girl? If he did not, should he risk trying to make
an ally of her? He decided that he must leave no stone unturned. His
position was desperate.

At eight o’clock the familiar sound of the key turning made him spring
to his feet. The girl was alone.

“Shut the door,” he commanded. “I want to speak to you.” She obeyed.

“Look here, Annette, I want you to help me get out of this.” She shook
her head.

“Impossible. There are three of them on the floor below.”

“Oh!” Tommy was secretly grateful for the information. “But you would
help me if you could?”

“No, monsieur.”

“Why not?”

The girl hesitated.

“I think--they are my own people. You have spied upon them. They are
quite right to keep you here.”

“They’re a bad lot, Annette. If you’ll help me, I’ll take you away from
the lot of them. And you’d probably get a good whack of money.”

But the girl merely shook her head.

“I dare not, monsieur; I am afraid of them.”

She turned away.

“Wouldn’t you do anything to help another girl?” cried Tommy. “She’s
about your age too. Won’t you save her from their clutches?”

“You mean Jane Finn?”

“Yes.”

“It is her you came here to look for? Yes?”

“That’s it.”

The girl looked at him, then passed her hand across her forehead.

“Jane Finn. Always I hear that name. It is familiar.”

Tommy came forward eagerly.

“You must know _something_ about her?”

But the girl turned away abruptly.

“I know nothing--only the name.” She walked towards the door. Suddenly
she uttered a cry. Tommy stared. She had caught sight of the picture
he had laid against the wall the night before. For a moment he caught a
look of terror in her eyes. As inexplicably it changed to relief. Then
abruptly she went out of the room. Tommy could make nothing of it. Did
she fancy that he had meant to attack her with it? Surely not. He rehung
the picture on the wall thoughtfully.

Three more days went by in dreary inaction. Tommy felt the strain
telling on his nerves. He saw no one but Conrad and Annette, and the
girl had become dumb. She spoke only in monosyllables. A kind of dark
suspicion smouldered in her eyes. Tommy felt that if this solitary
confinement went on much longer he would go mad. He gathered from Conrad
that they were waiting for orders from “Mr. Brown.” Perhaps, thought
Tommy, he was abroad or away, and they were obliged to wait for his
return.

But the evening of the third day brought a rude awakening.

It was barely seven o’clock when he heard the tramp of footsteps outside
in the passage. In another minute the door was flung open. Conrad
entered. With him was the evil-looking Number 14. Tommy’s heart sank at
the sight of them.

“Evenin’, gov’nor,” said the man with a leer. “Got those ropes, mate?”

The silent Conrad produced a length of fine cord. The next minute Number
14’s hands, horribly dexterous, were winding the cord round his limbs,
while Conrad held him down.

“What the devil----?” began Tommy.

But the slow, speechless grin of the silent Conrad froze the words on
his lips.

Number 14 proceeded deftly with his task. In another minute Tommy was a
mere helpless bundle. Then at last Conrad spoke:

“Thought you’d bluffed us, did you? With what you knew, and what you
didn’t know. Bargained with us! And all the time it was bluff! Bluff!
You know less than a kitten. But your number’s up now all right, you
b---- swine.”

Tommy lay silent. There was nothing to say. He had failed. Somehow
or other the omnipotent Mr. Brown had seen through his pretensions.
Suddenly a thought occurred to him.

“A very good speech, Conrad,” he said approvingly. “But wherefore the
bonds and fetters? Why not let this kind gentleman here cut my throat
without delay?”

“Garn,” said Number 14 unexpectedly. “Think we’re as green as to do you
in here, and have the police nosing round? Not ‘alf! We’ve ordered the
carriage for your lordship to-morrow mornin’, but in the meantime we’re
not taking any chances, see!”

“Nothing,” said Tommy, “could be plainer than your words--unless it was
your face.”

“Stow it,” said Number 14.

“With pleasure,” replied Tommy. “You’re making a sad mistake--but yours
will be the loss.”

“You don’t kid us that way again,” said Number 14. “Talking as though
you were still at the blooming _Ritz_, aren’t you?”

Tommy made no reply. He was engaged in wondering how Mr. Brown had
discovered his identity. He decided that Tuppence, in the throes of
anxiety, had gone to the police, and that his disappearance having been
made public the gang had not been slow to put two and two together.

The two men departed and the door slammed. Tommy was left to his
meditations. They were not pleasant ones. Already his limbs felt cramped
and stiff. He was utterly helpless, and he could see no hope anywhere.

About an hour had passed when he heard the key softly turned, and the
door opened. It was Annette. Tommy’s heart beat a little faster. He had
forgotten the girl. Was it possible that she had come to his help?

Suddenly he heard Conrad’s voice:

“Come out of it, Annette. He doesn’t want any supper to-night.”

“Oui, oui, je sais bien. But I must take the other tray. We need the
things on it.”

“Well, hurry up,” growled Conrad.

Without looking at Tommy the girl went over to the table, and picked up
the tray. She raised a hand and turned out the light.

“Curse you”--Conrad had come to the door--“why did you do that?”

“I always turn it out. You should have told me. Shall I relight it,
Monsieur Conrad?”

“No, come on out of it.”

“Le beau petit monsieur,” cried Annette, pausing by the bed in the
darkness. “You have tied him up well, _hein?_ He is like a trussed
chicken!” The frank amusement in her tone jarred on the boy; but at
that moment, to his amazement, he felt her hand running lightly over
his bonds, and something small and cold was pressed into the palm of his
hand.

“Come on, Annette.”

“Mais me voilà.”

The door shut. Tommy heard Conrad say:

“Lock it and give me the key.”

The footsteps died away. Tommy lay petrified with amazement. The object
Annette had thrust into his hand was a small penknife, the blade open.
From the way she had studiously avoided looking at him, and her action
with the light, he came to the conclusion that the room was overlooked.
There must be a peep-hole somewhere in the walls. Remembering how
guarded she had always been in her manner, he saw that he had probably
been under observation all the time. Had he said anything to give
himself away? Hardly. He had revealed a wish to escape and a desire
to find Jane Finn, but nothing that could have given a clue to his
own identity. True, his question to Annette had proved that he was
personally unacquainted with Jane Finn, but he had never pretended
otherwise. The question now was, did Annette really know more? Were her
denials intended primarily for the listeners? On that point he could
come to no conclusion.

But there was a more vital question that drove out all others. Could he,
bound as he was, manage to cut his bonds? He essayed cautiously to
rub the open blade up and down on the cord that bound his two wrists
together. It was an awkward business, and drew a smothered “Ow” of pain
from him as the knife cut into his wrist. But slowly and doggedly he
went on sawing to and fro. He cut the flesh badly, but at last he felt
the cord slacken. With his hands free, the rest was easy. Five minutes
later he stood upright with some difficulty, owing to the cramp in his
limbs. His first care was to bind up his bleeding wrist. Then he sat on
the edge of the bed to think. Conrad had taken the key of the door, so
he could expect little more assistance from Annette. The only outlet
from the room was the door, consequently he would perforce have to wait
until the two men returned to fetch him. But when they did.... Tommy
smiled! Moving with infinite caution in the dark room, he found and
unhooked the famous picture. He felt an economical pleasure that his
first plan would not be wasted. There was now nothing to do but to wait.
He waited.

The night passed slowly. Tommy lived through an eternity of hours, but
at last he heard footsteps. He stood upright, drew a deep breath, and
clutched the picture firmly.

The door opened. A faint light streamed in from outside. Conrad went
straight towards the gas to light it. Tommy deeply regretted that it was
he who had entered first. It would have been pleasant to get even with
Conrad. Number 14 followed. As he stepped across the threshold, Tommy
brought the picture down with terrific force on his head. Number 14 went
down amidst a stupendous crash of broken glass. In a minute Tommy had
slipped out and pulled to the door. The key was in the lock. He turned
it and withdrew it just as Conrad hurled himself against the door from
the inside with a volley of curses.

For a moment Tommy hesitated. There was the sound of some one stirring
on the floor below. Then the German’s voice came up the stairs.

“Gott im Himmel! Conrad, what is it?”

Tommy felt a small hand thrust into his. Beside him stood Annette. She
pointed up a rickety ladder that apparently led to some attics.

“Quick--up here!” She dragged him after her up the ladder. In another
moment they were standing in a dusty garret littered with lumber. Tommy
looked round.

“This won’t do. It’s a regular trap. There’s no way out.”

“Hush! Wait.” The girl put her finger to her lips. She crept to the top
of the ladder and listened.

The banging and beating on the door was terrific. The German and another
were trying to force the door in. Annette explained in a whisper:

“They will think you are still inside. They cannot hear what Conrad
says. The door is too thick.”

“I thought you could hear what went on in the room?”

“There is a peep-hole into the next room. It was clever of you to guess.
But they will not think of that--they are only anxious to get in.”

“Yes--but look here----”

“Leave it to me.” She bent down. To his amazement, Tommy saw that she
was fastening the end of a long piece of string to the handle of a big
cracked jug. She arranged it carefully, then turned to Tommy.

“Have you the key of the door?”

“Yes.”

“Give it to me.”

He handed it to her.

“I am going down. Do you think you can go halfway, and then swing
yourself down _behind_ the ladder, so that they will not see you?”

Tommy nodded.

“There’s a big cupboard in the shadow of the landing. Stand behind it.
Take the end of this string in your hand. When I’ve let the others out--
_pull! _”

Before he had time to ask her anything more, she had flitted lightly
down the ladder and was in the midst of the group with a loud cry:

“Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu! Qu’est-ce qu’il y a?”

The German turned on her with an oath.

“Get out of this. Go to your room!”

Very cautiously Tommy swung himself down the back of the ladder. So
long as they did not turn round ... all was well. He crouched behind the
cupboard. They were still between him and the stairs.

“Ah!” Annette appeared to stumble over something. She stooped. “Mon
Dieu, voilà la clef!”

The German snatched it from her. He unlocked the door. Conrad stumbled
out, swearing.

“Where is he? Have you got him?”

“We have seen no one,” said the German sharply. His face paled. “Who do
you mean?”

Conrad gave vent to another oath.

“He’s got away.”

“Impossible. He would have passed us.”

At that moment, with an ecstatic smile Tommy pulled the string. A crash
of crockery came from the attic above. In a trice the men were pushing
each other up the rickety ladder and had disappeared into the darkness
above.

Quick as a flash Tommy leapt from his hiding-place and dashed down the
stairs, pulling the girl with him. There was no one in the hall. He
fumbled over the bolts and chain. At last they yielded, the door swung
open. He turned. Annette had disappeared.

Tommy stood spell-bound. Had she run upstairs again? What madness
possessed her! He fumed with impatience, but he stood his ground. He
would not go without her.

And suddenly there was an outcry overhead, an exclamation from the
German, and then Annette’s voice, clear and high:

“Ma foi, he has escaped! And quickly! Who would have thought it?”

Tommy still stood rooted to the ground. Was that a command to him to go?
He fancied it was.

And then, louder still, the words floated down to him:

“This is a terrible house. I want to go back to Marguerite. To
Marguerite. _To Marguerite!_”

Tommy had run back to the stairs. She wanted him to go and leave her.
But why? At all costs he must try and get her away with him. Then his
heart sank. Conrad was leaping down the stairs, uttering a savage cry at
the sight of him. After him came the others.

Tommy stopped Conrad’s rush with a straight blow with his fist. It
caught the other on the point of the jaw and he fell like a log. The
second man tripped over his body and fell. From higher up the staircase
there was a flash, and a bullet grazed Tommy’s ear. He realized that
it would be good for his health to get out of this house as soon as
possible. As regards Annette he could do nothing. He had got even with
Conrad, which was one satisfaction. The blow had been a good one.

He leapt for the door, slamming it behind him. The square was deserted.
In front of the house was a baker’s van. Evidently he was to have been
taken out of London in that, and his body found many miles from the
house in Soho. The driver jumped to the pavement and tried to bar
Tommy’s way. Again Tommy’s fist shot out, and the driver sprawled on the
pavement.

Tommy took to his heels and ran--none too soon. The front door opened
and a hail of bullets followed him. Fortunately none of them hit him. He
turned the corner of the square.

“There’s one thing,” he thought to himself, “they can’t go on shooting.
They’ll have the police after them if they do. I wonder they dared to
there.”

He heard the footsteps of his pursuers behind him, and redoubled his own
pace. Once he got out of these by-ways he would be safe. There would be
a policeman about somewhere--not that he really wanted to invoke the aid
of the police if he could possibly do without it. It meant explanations,
and general awkwardness. In another moment he had reason to bless his
luck. He stumbled over a prostrate figure, which started up with a yell
of alarm and dashed off down the street. Tommy drew back into a doorway.
In a minute he had the pleasure of seeing his two pursuers, of whom the
German was one, industriously tracking down the red herring!

Tommy sat down quietly on the doorstep and allowed a few moments to
elapse while he recovered his breath. Then he strolled gently in the
opposite direction. He glanced at his watch. It was a little after
half-past five. It was rapidly growing light. At the next corner he
passed a policeman. The policeman cast a suspicious eye on him. Tommy
felt slightly offended. Then, passing his hand over his face, he
laughed. He had not shaved or washed for three days! What a guy he must
look.

He betook himself without more ado to a Turkish Bath establishment which
he knew to be open all night. He emerged into the busy daylight feeling
himself once more, and able to make plans.

First of all, he must have a square meal. He had eaten nothing since
midday yesterday. He turned into an A.B.C. shop and ordered eggs and
bacon and coffee. Whilst he ate, he read a morning paper propped up
in front of him. Suddenly he stiffened. There was a long article on
Kramenin, who was described as the “man behind Bolshevism” in Russia,
and who had just arrived in London--some thought as an unofficial envoy.
His career was sketched lightly, and it was firmly asserted that he,
and not the figurehead leaders, had been the author of the Russian
Revolution.

In the centre of the page was his portrait.

“So that’s who Number 1 is,” said Tommy with his mouth full of eggs and
bacon. “Not a doubt about it, I must push on.”

He paid for his breakfast, and betook himself to Whitehall. There he
sent up his name, and the message that it was urgent. A few minutes
later he was in the presence of the man who did not here go by the name
of “Mr. Carter.” There was a frown on his face.

“Look here, you’ve no business to come asking for me in this way. I
thought that was distinctly understood?”

“It was, sir. But I judged it important to lose no time.”

And as briefly and succinctly as possible he detailed the experiences of
the last few days.

Half-way through, Mr. Carter interrupted him to give a few cryptic
orders through the telephone. All traces of displeasure had now left his
face. He nodded energetically when Tommy had finished.

“Quite right. Every moment’s of value. Fear we shall be too late anyway.
They wouldn’t wait. Would clear out at once. Still, they may have left
something behind them that will be a clue. You say you’ve recognized
Number 1 to be Kramenin? That’s important. We want something against him
badly to prevent the Cabinet falling on his neck too freely. What about
the others? You say two faces were familiar to you? One’s a Labour man,
you think? Just look through these photos, and see if you can spot him.”

A minute later, Tommy held one up. Mr. Carter exhibited some surprise.

“Ah, Westway! Shouldn’t have thought it. Poses as being moderate. As for
the other fellow, I think I can give a good guess.” He handed another
photograph to Tommy, and smiled at the other’s exclamation. “I’m right,
then. Who is he? Irishman. Prominent Unionist M.P. All a blind, of
course. We’ve suspected it--but couldn’t get any proof. Yes, you’ve done
very well, young man. The 29th, you say, is the date. That gives us very
little time--very little time indeed.”

“But----” Tommy hesitated.

Mr. Carter read his thoughts.

“We can deal with the General Strike menace, I think. It’s a
toss-up--but we’ve got a sporting chance! But if that draft treaty turns
up--we’re done. England will be plunged in anarchy. Ah, what’s that?
The car? Come on, Beresford, we’ll go and have a look at this house of
yours.”

Two constables were on duty in front of the house in Soho. An inspector
reported to Mr. Carter in a low voice. The latter turned to Tommy.

“The birds have flown--as we thought. We might as well go over it.”

Going over the deserted house seemed to Tommy to partake of the
character of a dream. Everything was just as it had been. The prison
room with the crooked pictures, the broken jug in the attic, the meeting
room with its long table. But nowhere was there a trace of papers.
Everything of that kind had either been destroyed or taken away. And
there was no sign of Annette.

“What you tell me about the girl puzzled me,” said Mr. Carter. “You
believe that she deliberately went back?”

“It would seem so, sir. She ran upstairs while I was getting the door
open.”

“H’m, she must belong to the gang, then; but, being a woman, didn’t feel
like standing by to see a personable young man killed. But evidently
she’s in with them, or she wouldn’t have gone back.”

“I can’t believe she’s really one of them, sir. She--seemed so
different----”

“Good-looking, I suppose?” said Mr. Carter with a smile that made Tommy
flush to the roots of his hair. He admitted Annette’s beauty rather
shamefacedly.

“By the way,” observed Mr. Carter, “have you shown yourself to Miss
Tuppence yet? She’s been bombarding me with letters about you.”

“Tuppence? I was afraid she might get a bit rattled. Did she go to the
police?”

Mr. Carter shook his head.

“Then I wonder how they twigged me.”

Mr. Carter looked inquiringly at him, and Tommy explained. The other
nodded thoughtfully.

“True, that’s rather a curious point. Unless the mention of the _Ritz_
was an accidental remark?”

“It might have been, sir. But they must have found out about me suddenly
in some way.”

“Well,” said Mr. Carter, looking round him, “there’s nothing more to be
done here. What about some lunch with me?”

“Thanks awfully, sir. But I think I’d better get back and rout out
Tuppence.”

“Of course. Give her my kind regards and tell her not to believe you’re
killed too readily next time.”

Tommy grinned.

“I take a lot of killing, sir.”

“So I perceive,” said Mr. Carter dryly. “Well, good-bye. Remember you’re
a marked man now, and take reasonable care of yourself.”

“Thank you, sir.”

Hailing a taxi briskly Tommy stepped in, and was swiftly borne to the
_Ritz_, dwelling the while on the pleasurable anticipation of startling
Tuppence.

“Wonder what she’s been up to. Dogging ‘Rita’ most likely. By the way,
I suppose that’s who Annette meant by Marguerite. I didn’t get it at the
time.” The thought saddened him a little, for it seemed to prove that
Mrs. Vandemeyer and the girl were on intimate terms.

The taxi drew up at the _Ritz_. Tommy burst into its sacred portals
eagerly, but his enthusiasm received a check. He was informed that Miss
Cowley had gone out a quarter of an hour ago.



CHAPTER XVIII. THE TELEGRAM

BAFFLED for the moment, Tommy strolled into the restaurant, and ordered
a meal of surpassing excellence. His four days’ imprisonment had taught
him anew to value good food.

He was in the middle of conveying a particularly choice morsel of Sole
à la Jeanette to his mouth, when he caught sight of Julius entering
the room. Tommy waved a menu cheerfully, and succeeded in attracting the
other’s attention. At the sight of Tommy, Julius’s eyes seemed as though
they would pop out of his head. He strode across, and pump-handled
Tommy’s hand with what seemed to the latter quite unnecessary vigour.

“Holy snakes!” he ejaculated. “Is it really you?”

“Of course it is. Why shouldn’t it be?”

“Why shouldn’t it be? Say, man, don’t you know you’ve been given up
for dead? I guess we’d have had a solemn requiem for you in another few
days.”

“Who thought I was dead?” demanded Tommy.

“Tuppence.”

“She remembered the proverb about the good dying young, I suppose. There
must be a certain amount of original sin in me to have survived. Where
is Tuppence, by the way?”

“Isn’t she here?”

“No, the fellows at the office said she’d just gone out.”

“Gone shopping, I guess. I dropped her here in the car about an hour
ago. But, say, can’t you shed that British calm of yours, and get down
to it? What on God’s earth have you been doing all this time?”

“If you’re feeding here,” replied Tommy, “order now. It’s going to be a
long story.”

Julius drew up a chair to the opposite side of the table, summoned a
hovering waiter, and dictated his wishes. Then he turned to Tommy.

“Fire ahead. I guess you’ve had some few adventures.”

“One or two,” replied Tommy modestly, and plunged into his recital.

Julius listened spellbound. Half the dishes that were placed before him
he forgot to eat. At the end he heaved a long sigh.

“Bully for you. Reads like a dime novel!”

“And now for the home front,” said Tommy, stretching out his hand for a
peach.

“We-el,” drawled Julius, “I don’t mind admitting we’ve had some
adventures too.”

He, in his turn, assumed the rôle of narrator. Beginning with his
unsuccessful reconnoitring at Bournemouth, he passed on to his return
to London, the buying of the car, the growing anxieties of Tuppence,
the call upon Sir James, and the sensational occurrences of the previous
night.

“But who killed her?” asked Tommy. “I don’t quite understand.”

“The doctor kidded himself she took it herself,” replied Julius dryly.

“And Sir James? What did he think?”

“Being a legal luminary, he is likewise a human oyster,” replied Julius.
“I should say he ‘reserved judgment.’” He went on to detail the events
of the morning.

“Lost her memory, eh?” said Tommy with interest. “By Jove, that explains
why they looked at me so queerly when I spoke of questioning her. Bit of
a slip on my part, that! But it wasn’t the sort of thing a fellow would
be likely to guess.”

“They didn’t give you any sort of hint as to where Jane was?”

Tommy shook his head regretfully.

“Not a word. I’m a bit of an ass, as you know. I ought to have got more
out of them somehow.”

“I guess you’re lucky to be here at all. That bluff of yours was the
goods all right. How you ever came to think of it all so pat beats me to
a frazzle!”

“I was in such a funk I had to think of something,” said Tommy simply.

There was a moment’s pause, and then Tommy reverted to Mrs. Vandemeyer’s
death.

“There’s no doubt it was chloral?”

“I believe not. At least they call it heart failure induced by an
overdose, or some such claptrap. It’s all right. We don’t want to
be worried with an inquest. But I guess Tuppence and I and even the
highbrow Sir James have all got the same idea.”

“Mr. Brown?” hazarded Tommy.

“Sure thing.”

Tommy nodded.

“All the same,” he said thoughtfully, “Mr. Brown hasn’t got wings. I
don’t see how he got in and out.”

“How about some high-class thought transference stunt? Some magnetic
influence that irresistibly impelled Mrs. Vandemeyer to commit suicide?”

Tommy looked at him with respect.

“Good, Julius. Distinctly good. Especially the phraseology. But it
leaves me cold. I yearn for a real Mr. Brown of flesh and blood. I think
the gifted young detectives must get to work, study the entrances and
exits, and tap the bumps on their foreheads until the solution of the
mystery dawns on them. Let’s go round to the scene of the crime. I wish
we could get hold of Tuppence. The _Ritz_ would enjoy the spectacle of
the glad reunion.”

Inquiry at the office revealed the fact that Tuppence had not yet
returned.

“All the same, I guess I’ll have a look round upstairs,” said Julius.
“She might be in my sitting-room.” He disappeared.

Suddenly a diminutive boy spoke at Tommy’s elbow:

“The young lady--she’s gone away by train, I think, sir,” he murmured
shyly.

“What?” Tommy wheeled round upon him.

The small boy became pinker than before.

“The taxi, sir. I heard her tell the driver Charing Cross and to look
sharp.”

Tommy stared at him, his eyes opening wide in surprise. Emboldened, the
small boy proceeded. “So I thought, having asked for an A.B.C. and a
Bradshaw.”

Tommy interrupted him:

“When did she ask for an A.B.C. and a Bradshaw?”

“When I took her the telegram, sir.”

“A telegram?”

“Yes, sir.”

“When was that?”

“About half-past twelve, sir.”

“Tell me exactly what happened.”

The small boy drew a long breath.

“I took up a telegram to No. 891--the lady was there. She opened it
and gave a gasp, and then she said, very jolly like: ‘Bring me up a
Bradshaw, and an A.B.C., and look sharp, Henry.’ My name isn’t Henry,
but----”

“Never mind your name,” said Tommy impatiently. “Go on.”

“Yes, sir. I brought them, and she told me to wait, and looked up
something. And then she looks up at the clock, and ‘Hurry up,’ she says.
‘Tell them to get me a taxi,’ and she begins a-shoving on of her hat in
front of the glass, and she was down in two ticks, almost as quick as I
was, and I seed her going down the steps and into the taxi, and I heard
her call out what I told you.”

The small boy stopped and replenished his lungs. Tommy continued to
stare at him. At that moment Julius rejoined him. He held an open letter
in his hand.

“I say, Hersheimmer”--Tommy turned to him--“Tuppence has gone off
sleuthing on her own.”

“Shucks!”

“Yes, she has. She went off in a taxi to Charing Cross in the deuce of a
hurry after getting a telegram.” His eye fell on the letter in Julius’s
hand. “Oh; she left a note for you. That’s all right. Where’s she off
to?”

Almost unconsciously, he held out his hand for the letter, but
Julius folded it up and placed it in his pocket. He seemed a trifle
embarrassed.

“I guess this is nothing to do with it. It’s about something
else--something I asked her that she was to let me know about.”

“Oh!” Tommy looked puzzled, and seemed waiting for more.

“See here,” said Julius suddenly, “I’d better put you wise. I asked Miss
Tuppence to marry me this morning.”

“Oh!” said Tommy mechanically. He felt dazed. Julius’s words were
totally unexpected. For the moment they benumbed his brain.

“I’d like to tell you,” continued Julius, “that before I suggested
anything of the kind to Miss Tuppence, I made it clear that I didn’t
want to butt in in any way between her and you----”

Tommy roused himself.

“That’s all right,” he said quickly. “Tuppence and I have been pals for
years. Nothing more.” He lit a cigarette with a hand that shook ever
so little. “That’s quite all right. Tuppence always said that she was
looking out for----”

He stopped abruptly, his face crimsoning, but Julius was in no way
discomposed.

“Oh, I guess it’ll be the dollars that’ll do the trick. Miss Tuppence
put me wise to that right away. There’s no humbug about her. We ought to
gee along together very well.”

Tommy looked at him curiously for a minute, as though he were about
to speak, then changed his mind and said nothing. Tuppence and Julius!
Well, why not? Had she not lamented the fact that she knew no rich men?
Had she not openly avowed her intention of marrying for money if she
ever had the chance? Her meeting with the young American millionaire
had given her the chance--and it was unlikely she would be slow to avail
herself of it. She was out for money. She had always said so. Why blame
her because she had been true to her creed?

Nevertheless, Tommy did blame her. He was filled with a passionate and
utterly illogical resentment. It was all very well to _say_ things
like that--but a _real_ girl would never marry for money. Tuppence was
utterly cold-blooded and selfish, and he would be delighted if he never
saw her again! And it was a rotten world!

Julius’s voice broke in on these meditations.

“Yes, we ought to gee along together very well. I’ve heard that a girl
always refuses you once--a sort of convention.”

Tommy caught his arm.

“Refuses? Did you say _refuses?_”

“Sure thing. Didn’t I tell you that? She just rapped out a ‘no’ without
any kind of reason to it. The eternal feminine, the Huns call it, I’ve
heard. But she’ll come round right enough. Likely enough, I hustled her
some----”

But Tommy interrupted regardless of decorum.

“What did she say in that note?” he demanded fiercely.

The obliging Julius handed it to him.

“There’s no earthly clue in it as to where she’s gone,” he assured
Tommy. “But you might as well see for yourself if you don’t believe me.”

The note, in Tuppence’s well-known schoolboy writing, ran as follows:

“DEAR JULIUS,

“It’s always better to have things in black and white. I don’t feel I
can be bothered to think of marriage until Tommy is found. Let’s leave
it till then.

“Yours affectionately,

“TUPPENCE.”

Tommy handed it back, his eyes shining. His feelings had undergone a
sharp reaction. He now felt that Tuppence was all that was noble and
disinterested. Had she not refused Julius without hesitation? True, the
note betokened signs of weakening, but he could excuse that. It read
almost like a bribe to Julius to spur him on in his efforts to find
Tommy, but he supposed she had not really meant it that way. Darling
Tuppence, there was not a girl in the world to touch her! When he saw
her----His thoughts were brought up with a sudden jerk.

“As you say,” he remarked, pulling himself together, “there’s not a hint
here as to what she’s up to. Hi--Henry!”

The small boy came obediently. Tommy produced five shillings.

“One thing more. Do you remember what the young lady did with the
telegram?”

Henry gasped and spoke.

“She crumpled it up into a ball and threw it into the grate, and made a
sort of noise like ‘Whoop!’ sir.”

“Very graphic, Henry,” said Tommy. “Here’s your five shillings. Come on,
Julius. We must find that telegram.”

They hurried upstairs. Tuppence had left the key in her door. The room
was as she had left it. In the fireplace was a crumpled ball of orange
and white. Tommy disentangled it and smoothed out the telegram.

“Come at once, Moat House, Ebury, Yorkshire, great developments--TOMMY.”

They looked at each other in stupefaction. Julius spoke first:

“You didn’t send it?”

“Of course not. What does it mean?”

“I guess it means the worst,” said Julius quietly. “They’ve got her.”

_“What?”_

“Sure thing! They signed your name, and she fell into the trap like a
lamb.”

“My God! What shall we do?”

“Get busy, and go after her! Right now! There’s no time to waste. It’s
almighty luck that she didn’t take the wire with her. If she had we’d
probably never have traced her. But we’ve got to hustle. Where’s that
Bradshaw?”

The energy of Julius was infectious. Left to himself, Tommy would
probably have sat down to think things out for a good half-hour before
he decided on a plan of action. But with Julius Hersheimmer about,
hustling was inevitable.

After a few muttered imprecations he handed the Bradshaw to Tommy as
being more conversant with its mysteries. Tommy abandoned it in favour
of an A.B.C.

“Here we are. Ebury, Yorks. From King’s Cross. Or St. Pancras. (Boy must
have made a mistake. It was King’s Cross, not _Charing_ Cross.) 12.50,
that’s the train she went by. 2.10, that’s gone. 3.20 is the next--and a
damned slow train too.”

“What about the car?”

Tommy shook his head.

“Send it up if you like, but we’d better stick to the train. The great
thing is to keep calm.”

Julius groaned.

“That’s so. But it gets my goat to think of that innocent young girl in
danger!”

Tommy nodded abstractedly. He was thinking. In a moment or two, he said:

“I say, Julius, what do they want her for, anyway?”

“Eh? I don’t get you?”

“What I mean is that I don’t think it’s their game to do her any harm,”
 explained Tommy, puckering his brow with the strain of his mental
processes. “She’s a hostage, that’s what she is. She’s in no immediate
danger, because if we tumble on to anything, she’d be damned useful to
them. As long as they’ve got her, they’ve got the whip hand of us. See?”

“Sure thing,” said Julius thoughtfully. “That’s so.”

“Besides,” added Tommy, as an afterthought, “I’ve great faith in
Tuppence.”

The journey was wearisome, with many stops, and crowded carriages. They
had to change twice, once at Doncaster, once at a small junction. Ebury
was a deserted station with a solitary porter, to whom Tommy addressed
himself:

“Can you tell me the way to the Moat House?”

“The Moat House? It’s a tidy step from here. The big house near the sea,
you mean?”

Tommy assented brazenly. After listening to the porter’s meticulous
but perplexing directions, they prepared to leave the station. It was
beginning to rain, and they turned up the collars of their coats as they
trudged through the slush of the road. Suddenly Tommy halted.

“Wait a moment.” He ran back to the station and tackled the porter anew.

“Look here, do you remember a young lady who arrived by an earlier
train, the 12.50 from London? She’d probably ask you the way to the Moat
House.”

He described Tuppence as well as he could, but the porter shook his
head. Several people had arrived by the train in question. He could not
call to mind one young lady in particular. But he was quite certain that
no one had asked him the way to the Moat House.

Tommy rejoined Julius, and explained. Depression was settling on him
like a leaden weight. He felt convinced that their quest was going to
be unsuccessful. The enemy had over three hours’ start. Three hours was
more than enough for Mr. Brown. He would not ignore the possibility of
the telegram having been found.

The way seemed endless. Once they took the wrong turning and went nearly
half a mile out of their direction. It was past seven o’clock when a
small boy told them that “t’ Moat House” was just past the next corner.

A rusty iron gate swinging dismally on its hinges! An overgrown drive
thick with leaves. There was something about the place that struck a
chill to both their hearts. They went up the deserted drive. The leaves
deadened their footsteps. The daylight was almost gone. It was like
walking in a world of ghosts. Overhead the branches flapped and creaked
with a mournful note. Occasionally a sodden leaf drifted silently down,
startling them with its cold touch on their cheek.

A turn of the drive brought them in sight of the house. That, too,
seemed empty and deserted. The shutters were closed, the steps up to
the door overgrown with moss. Was it indeed to this desolate spot
that Tuppence had been decoyed? It seemed hard to believe that a human
footstep had passed this way for months.

Julius jerked the rusty bell handle. A jangling peal rang discordantly,
echoing through the emptiness within. No one came. They rang again and
again--but there was no sign of life. Then they walked completely round
the house. Everywhere silence, and shuttered windows. If they could
believe the evidence of their eyes the place was empty.

“Nothing doing,” said Julius.

They retraced their steps slowly to the gate.

“There must be a village handy,” continued the young American. “We’d
better make inquiries there. They’ll know something about the place, and
whether there’s been anyone there lately.”

“Yes, that’s not a bad idea.”

Proceeding up the road, they soon came to a little hamlet. On the
outskirts of it, they met a workman swinging his bag of tools, and Tommy
stopped him with a question.

“The Moat House? It’s empty. Been empty for years. Mrs. Sweeny’s got the
key if you want to go over it--next to the post office.”

Tommy thanked him. They soon found the post office, which was also a
sweet and general fancy shop, and knocked at the door of the cottage
next to it. A clean, wholesome-looking woman opened it. She readily
produced the key of the Moat House.

“Though I doubt if it’s the kind of place to suit you, sir. In a
terrible state of repair. Ceilings leaking and all. ‘Twould need a lot
of money spent on it.”

“Thanks,” said Tommy cheerily. “I dare say it’ll be a washout, but
houses are scarce nowadays.”

“That they are,” declared the woman heartily. “My daughter and
son-in-law have been looking for a decent cottage for I don’t know how
long. It’s all the war. Upset things terribly, it has. But excuse me,
sir, it’ll be too dark for you to see much of the house. Hadn’t you
better wait until to-morrow?”

“That’s all right. We’ll have a look around this evening, anyway. We’d
have been here before only we lost our way. What’s the best place to
stay at for the night round here?”

Mrs. Sweeny looked doubtful.

“There’s the _Yorkshire Arms_, but it’s not much of a place for
gentlemen like you.”

“Oh, it will do very well. Thanks. By the way, you’ve not had a young
lady here asking for this key to-day?”

The woman shook her head.

“No one’s been over the place for a long time.”

“Thanks very much.”

They retraced their steps to the Moat House. As the front door swung
back on its hinges, protesting loudly, Julius struck a match and
examined the floor carefully. Then he shook his head.

“I’d swear no one’s passed this way. Look at the dust. Thick. Not a sign
of a footmark.”

They wandered round the deserted house. Everywhere the same tale. Thick
layers of dust apparently undisturbed.

“This gets me,” said Julius. “I don’t believe Tuppence was ever in this
house.”

“She must have been.”

Julius shook his head without replying.

“We’ll go over it again to-morrow,” said Tommy. “Perhaps we’ll see more
in the daylight.”

On the morrow they took up the search once more, and were reluctantly
forced to the conclusion that the house had not been invaded for some
considerable time. They might have left the village altogether but for
a fortunate discovery of Tommy’s. As they were retracing their steps to
the gate, he gave a sudden cry, and stooping, picked something up from
among the leaves, and held it out to Julius. It was a small gold brooch.

“That’s Tuppence’s!”

“Are you sure?”

“Absolutely. I’ve often seen her wear it.”

Julius drew a deep breath.

“I guess that settles it. She came as far as here, anyway. We’ll make
that pub our head-quarters, and raise hell round here until we find her.
Somebody _must_ have seen her.”

Forthwith the campaign began. Tommy and Julius worked separately and
together, but the result was the same. Nobody answering to Tuppence’s
description had been seen in the vicinity. They were baffled--but not
discouraged. Finally they altered their tactics. Tuppence had certainly
not remained long in the neighbourhood of the Moat House. That pointed
to her having been overcome and carried away in a car. They renewed
inquiries. Had anyone seen a car standing somewhere near the Moat House
that day? Again they met with no success.

Julius wired to town for his own car, and they scoured the neighbourhood
daily with unflagging zeal. A grey limousine on which they had set high
hopes was traced to Harrogate, and turned out to be the property of a
highly respectable maiden lady!

Each day saw them set out on a new quest. Julius was like a hound on
the leash. He followed up the slenderest clue. Every car that had passed
through the village on the fateful day was tracked down. He forced his
way into country properties and submitted the owners of the motors to
a searching cross-examination. His apologies were as thorough as his
methods, and seldom failed in disarming the indignation of his victims;
but, as day succeeded day, they were no nearer to discovering Tuppence’s
whereabouts. So well had the abduction been planned that the girl seemed
literally to have vanished into thin air.

And another preoccupation was weighing on Tommy’s mind.

“Do you know how long we’ve been here?” he asked one morning as they
sat facing each other at breakfast. “A week! We’re no nearer to finding
Tuppence, _and next Sunday is the_ 29_th!_”

“Shucks!” said Julius thoughtfully. “I’d almost forgotten about the
29th. I’ve been thinking of nothing but Tuppence.”

“So have I. At least, I hadn’t forgotten about the 29th, but it didn’t
seem to matter a damn in comparison to finding Tuppence. But to-day’s
the 23rd, and time’s getting short. If we’re ever going to get hold of
her at all, we must do it before the 29th--her life won’t be worth an
hour’s purchase afterwards. The hostage game will be played out by then.
I’m beginning to feel that we’ve made a big mistake in the way we’ve set
about this. We’ve wasted time and we’re no forrader.”

“I’m with you there. We’ve been a couple of mutts, who’ve bitten off a
bigger bit than they can chew. I’m going to quit fooling right away!”

“What do you mean?”

“I’ll tell you. I’m going to do what we ought to have done a week ago.
I’m going right back to London to put the case in the hands of your
British police. We fancied ourselves as sleuths. Sleuths! It was a piece
of damn-fool foolishness! I’m through! I’ve had enough of it. Scotland
Yard for me!”

“You’re right,” said Tommy slowly. “I wish to God we’d gone there right
away.”

“Better late than never. We’ve been like a couple of babes playing ‘Here
we go round the Mulberry Bush.’ Now I’m going right along to Scotland
Yard to ask them to take me by the hand and show me the way I should go.
I guess the professional always scores over the amateur in the end. Are
you coming along with me?”

Tommy shook his head.

“What’s the good? One of us is enough. I might as well stay here and
nose round a bit longer. Something _might_ turn up. One never knows.”

“Sure thing. Well, so long. I’ll be back in a couple of shakes with a
few inspectors along. I shall tell them to pick out their brightest and
best.”

But the course of events was not to follow the plan Julius had laid
down. Later in the day Tommy received a wire:

“Join me Manchester Midland Hotel. Important news--JULIUS.”

At 7.30 that night Tommy alighted from a slow cross-country train.
Julius was on the platform.

“Thought you’d come by this train if you weren’t out when my wire
arrived.”

Tommy grasped him by the arm.

“What is it? Is Tuppence found?”

Julius shook his head.

“No. But I found this waiting in London. Just arrived.”

He handed the telegraph form to the other. Tommy’s eyes opened as he
read:

“Jane Finn found. Come Manchester Midland Hotel immediately--PEEL
EDGERTON.”

Julius took the form back and folded it up.

“Queer,” he said thoughtfully. “I thought that lawyer chap had quit!”



CHAPTER XIX. JANE FINN

“MY train got in half an hour ago,” explained Julius, as he led the way
out of the station. “I reckoned you’d come by this before I left London,
and wired accordingly to Sir James. He’s booked rooms for us, and will
be round to dine at eight.”

“What made you think he’d ceased to take any interest in the case?”
 asked Tommy curiously.

“What he said,” replied Julius dryly. “The old bird’s as close as an
oyster! Like all the darned lot of them, he wasn’t going to commit
himself till he was sure he could deliver the goods.”

“I wonder,” said Tommy thoughtfully.

Julius turned on him.

“You wonder what?”

“Whether that was his real reason.”

“Sure. You bet your life it was.”

Tommy shook his head unconvinced.

Sir James arrived punctually at eight o’clock, and Julius introduced
Tommy. Sir James shook hands with him warmly.

“I am delighted to make your acquaintance, Mr. Beresford. I have heard
so much about you from Miss Tuppence”--he smiled involuntarily--“that it
really seems as though I already know you quite well.”

“Thank you, sir,” said Tommy with his cheerful grin. He scanned the
great lawyer eagerly. Like Tuppence, he felt the magnetism of the
other’s personality. He was reminded of Mr. Carter. The two men, totally
unlike so far as physical resemblance went, produced a similar effect.
Beneath the weary manner of the one and the professional reserve of the
other, lay the same quality of mind, keen-edged like a rapier.

In the meantime he was conscious of Sir James’s close scrutiny. When the
lawyer dropped his eyes the young man had the feeling that the other had
read him through and through like an open book. He could not but wonder
what the final judgment was, but there was little chance of learning
that. Sir James took in everything, but gave out only what he chose. A
proof of that occurred almost at once.

Immediately the first greetings were over Julius broke out into a flood
of eager questions. How had Sir James managed to track the girl? Why had
he not let them know that he was still working on the case? And so on.

Sir James stroked his chin and smiled. At last he said:

“Just so, just so. Well, she’s found. And that’s the great thing, isn’t
it? Eh! Come now, that’s the great thing?”

“Sure it is. But just how did you strike her trail? Miss Tuppence and I
thought you’d quit for good and all.”

“Ah!” The lawyer shot a lightning glance at him, then resumed operations
on his chin. “You thought that, did you? Did you really? H’m, dear me.”

“But I guess I can take it we were wrong,” pursued Julius.

“Well, I don’t know that I should go so far as to say that. But it’s
certainly fortunate for all parties that we’ve managed to find the young
lady.”

“But where is she?” demanded Julius, his thoughts flying off on another
tack. “I thought you’d be sure to bring her along?”

“That would hardly be possible,” said Sir James gravely.

“Why?”

“Because the young lady was knocked down in a street accident, and has
sustained slight injuries to the head. She was taken to the infirmary,
and on recovering consciousness gave her name as Jane Finn. When--ah!--I
heard that, I arranged for her to be removed to the house of a
doctor--a friend of mine, and wired at once for you. She relapsed into
unconsciousness and has not spoken since.”

“She’s not seriously hurt?”

“Oh, a bruise and a cut or two; really, from a medical point of view,
absurdly slight injuries to have produced such a condition. Her state is
probably to be attributed to the mental shock consequent on recovering
her memory.”

“It’s come back?” cried Julius excitedly.

Sir James tapped the table rather impatiently.

“Undoubtedly, Mr. Hersheimmer, since she was able to give her real name.
I thought you had appreciated that point.”

“And you just happened to be on the spot,” said Tommy. “Seems quite like
a fairy tale.”

But Sir James was far too wary to be drawn.

“Coincidences are curious things,” he said dryly.

Nevertheless Tommy was now certain of what he had before only suspected.
Sir James’s presence in Manchester was not accidental. Far from
abandoning the case, as Julius supposed, he had by some means of his own
successfully run the missing girl to earth. The only thing that puzzled
Tommy was the reason for all this secrecy. He concluded that it was a
foible of the legal mind.

Julius was speaking.

“After dinner,” he announced, “I shall go right away and see Jane.”

“That will be impossible, I fear,” said Sir James. “It is very unlikely
they would allow her to see visitors at this time of night. I should
suggest to-morrow morning about ten o’clock.”

Julius flushed. There was something in Sir James which always stirred
him to antagonism. It was a conflict of two masterful personalities.

“All the same, I reckon I’ll go round there to-night and see if I can’t
ginger them up to break through their silly rules.”

“It will be quite useless, Mr. Hersheimmer.”

The words came out like the crack of a pistol, and Tommy looked up with
a start. Julius was nervous and excited. The hand with which he raised
his glass to his lips shook slightly, but his eyes held Sir James’s
defiantly. For a moment the hostility between the two seemed likely to
burst into flame, but in the end Julius lowered his eyes, defeated.

“For the moment, I reckon you’re the boss.”

“Thank you,” said the other. “We will say ten o’clock then?” With
consummate ease of manner he turned to Tommy. “I must confess, Mr.
Beresford, that it was something of a surprise to me to see you here
this evening. The last I heard of you was that your friends were in
grave anxiety on your behalf. Nothing had been heard of you for
some days, and Miss Tuppence was inclined to think you had got into
difficulties.”

“I had, sir!” Tommy grinned reminiscently. “I was never in a tighter
place in my life.”

Helped out by questions from Sir James, he gave an abbreviated account
of his adventures. The lawyer looked at him with renewed interest as he
brought the tale to a close.

“You got yourself out of a tight place very well,” he said gravely. “I
congratulate you. You displayed a great deal of ingenuity and carried
your part through well.”

Tommy blushed, his face assuming a prawnlike hue at the praise.

“I couldn’t have got away but for the girl, sir.”

“No.” Sir James smiled a little. “It was lucky for you she happened
to--er--take a fancy to you.” Tommy appeared about to protest, but Sir
James went on. “There’s no doubt about her being one of the gang, I
suppose?”

“I’m afraid not, sir. I thought perhaps they were keeping her there by
force, but the way she acted didn’t fit in with that. You see, she went
back to them when she could have got away.”

Sir James nodded thoughtfully.

“What did she say? Something about wanting to be taken to Marguerite?”

“Yes, sir. I suppose she meant Mrs. Vandemeyer.”

“She always signed herself Rita Vandemeyer. All her friends spoke of
her as Rita. Still, I suppose the girl must have been in the habit of
calling her by her full name. And, at the moment she was crying out to
her, Mrs. Vandemeyer was either dead or dying! Curious! There are one
or two points that strike me as being obscure--their sudden change
of attitude towards yourself, for instance. By the way, the house was
raided, of course?”

“Yes, sir, but they’d all cleared out.”

“Naturally,” said Sir James dryly.

“And not a clue left behind.”

“I wonder----” The lawyer tapped the table thoughtfully.

Something in his voice made Tommy look up. Would this man’s eyes have
seen something where theirs had been blind? He spoke impulsively:

“I wish you’d been there, sir, to go over the house!”

“I wish I had,” said Sir James quietly. He sat for a moment in silence.
Then he looked up. “And since then? What have you been doing?”

For a moment, Tommy stared at him. Then it dawned on him that of course
the lawyer did not know.

“I forgot that you didn’t know about Tuppence,” he said slowly. The
sickening anxiety, forgotten for a while in the excitement of knowing
Jane Finn was found at last, swept over him again.

The lawyer laid down his knife and fork sharply.

“Has anything happened to Miss Tuppence?” His voice was keen-edged.

“She’s disappeared,” said Julius.

“When?”

“A week ago.”

“How?”

Sir James’s questions fairly shot out. Between them Tommy and Julius
gave the history of the last week and their futile search.

Sir James went at once to the root of the matter.

“A wire signed with your name? They knew enough of you both for that.
They weren’t sure of how much you had learnt in that house. Their
kidnapping of Miss Tuppence is the counter-move to your escape. If
necessary they could seal your lips with a threat of what might happen
to her.”

Tommy nodded.

“That’s just what I thought, sir.”

Sir James looked at him keenly. “You had worked that out, had you? Not
bad--not at all bad. The curious thing is that they certainly did not
know anything about you when they first held you prisoner. You are sure
that you did not in any way disclose your identity?”

Tommy shook his head.

“That’s so,” said Julius with a nod. “Therefore I reckon some one put
them wise--and not earlier than Sunday afternoon.”

“Yes, but who?”

“That almighty omniscient Mr. Brown, of course!”

There was a faint note of derision in the American’s voice which made
Sir James look up sharply.

“You don’t believe in Mr. Brown, Mr. Hersheimmer?”

“No, sir, I do not,” returned the young American with emphasis. “Not
as such, that is to say. I reckon it out that he’s a figurehead--just a
bogy name to frighten the children with. The real head of this business
is that Russian chap Kramenin. I guess he’s quite capable of running
revolutions in three countries at once if he chose! The man Whittington
is probably the head of the English branch.”

“I disagree with you,” said Sir James shortly. “Mr. Brown exists.” He
turned to Tommy. “Did you happen to notice where that wire was handed
in?”

“No, sir, I’m afraid I didn’t.”

“H’m. Got it with you?”

“It’s upstairs, sir, in my kit.”

“I’d like to have a look at it sometime. No hurry. You’ve wasted a
week”--Tommy hung his head--“a day or so more is immaterial. We’ll deal
with Miss Jane Finn first. Afterwards, we’ll set to work to rescue Miss
Tuppence from bondage. I don’t think she’s in any immediate danger. That
is, so long as they don’t know that we’ve got Jane Finn, and that
her memory has returned. We must keep that dark at all costs. You
understand?”

The other two assented, and, after making arrangements for meeting on
the morrow, the great lawyer took his leave.

At ten o’clock, the two young men were at the appointed spot. Sir
James had joined them on the doorstep. He alone appeared unexcited. He
introduced them to the doctor.

“Mr. Hersheimmer--Mr. Beresford--Dr. Roylance. How’s the patient?”

“Going on well. Evidently no idea of the flight of time. Asked this
morning how many had been saved from the _Lusitania_. Was it in the
papers yet? That, of course, was only what was to be expected. She seems
to have something on her mind, though.”

“I think we can relieve her anxiety. May we go up?”

“Certainly.”

Tommy’s heart beat sensibly faster as they followed the doctor upstairs.
Jane Finn at last! The long-sought, the mysterious, the elusive Jane
Finn! How wildly improbable success had seemed! And here in this house,
her memory almost miraculously restored, lay the girl who held the
future of England in her hands. A half groan broke from Tommy’s lips.
If only Tuppence could have been at his side to share in the triumphant
conclusion of their joint venture! Then he put the thought of Tuppence
resolutely aside. His confidence in Sir James was growing. There was
a man who would unerringly ferret out Tuppence’s whereabouts. In the
meantime Jane Finn! And suddenly a dread clutched at his heart. It
seemed too easy.... Suppose they should find her dead ... stricken down
by the hand of Mr. Brown?

In another minute he was laughing at these melodramatic fancies. The
doctor held open the door of a room and they passed in. On the white
bed, bandages round her head, lay the girl. Somehow the whole scene
seemed unreal. It was so exactly what one expected that it gave the
effect of being beautifully staged.

The girl looked from one to the other of them with large wondering eyes.
Sir James spoke first.

“Miss Finn,” he said, “this is your cousin, Mr. Julius P. Hersheimmer.”

A faint flush flitted over the girl’s face, as Julius stepped forward
and took her hand.

“How do, Cousin Jane?” he said lightly.

But Tommy caught the tremor in his voice.

“Are you really Uncle Hiram’s son?” she asked wonderingly.

Her voice, with the slight warmth of the Western accent, had an almost
thrilling quality. It seemed vaguely familiar to Tommy, but he thrust
the impression aside as impossible.

“Sure thing.”

“We used to read about Uncle Hiram in the papers,” continued the girl,
in her low soft tones. “But I never thought I’d meet you one day. Mother
figured it out that Uncle Hiram would never get over being mad with
her.”

“The old man was like that,” admitted Julius. “But I guess the new
generation’s sort of different. Got no use for the family feud business.
First thing I thought about, soon as the war was over, was to come along
and hunt you up.”

A shadow passed over the girl’s face.

“They’ve been telling me things--dreadful things--that my memory went,
and that there are years I shall never know about--years lost out of my
life.”

“You didn’t realize that yourself?”

The girl’s eyes opened wide.

“Why, no. It seems to me as though it were no time since we were being
hustled into those boats. I can see it all now.” She closed her eyes
with a shudder.

Julius looked across at Sir James, who nodded.

“Don’t worry any. It isn’t worth it. Now, see here, Jane, there’s
something we want to know about. There was a man aboard that boat with
some mighty important papers on him, and the big guns in this country
have got a notion that he passed on the goods to you. Is that so?”

The girl hesitated, her glance shifting to the other two. Julius
understood.

“Mr. Beresford is commissioned by the British Government to get those
papers back. Sir James Peel Edgerton is an English Member of Parliament,
and might be a big gun in the Cabinet if he liked. It’s owing to him
that we’ve ferreted you out at last. So you can go right ahead and tell
us the whole story. Did Danvers give you the papers?”

“Yes. He said they’d have a better chance with me, because they would
save the women and children first.”

“Just as we thought,” said Sir James.

“He said they were very important--that they might make all the
difference to the Allies. But, if it’s all so long ago, and the war’s
over, what does it matter now?”

“I guess history repeats itself, Jane. First there was a great hue
and cry over those papers, then it all died down, and now the whole
caboodle’s started all over again--for rather different reasons. Then
you can hand them over to us right away?”

“But I can’t.”

“What?”

“I haven’t got them.”

“You--haven’t--got them?” Julius punctuated the words with little
pauses.

“No--I hid them.”

“You _hid_ them?”

“Yes. I got uneasy. People seemed to be watching me. It scared
me--badly.” She put her hand to her head. “It’s almost the last thing I
remember before waking up in the hospital....”

“Go on,” said Sir James, in his quiet penetrating tones. “What do you
remember?”

She turned to him obediently.

“It was at Holyhead. I came that way--I don’t remember why....”

“That doesn’t matter. Go on.”

“In the confusion on the quay I slipped away. Nobody saw me. I took a
car. Told the man to drive me out of the town. I watched when we got on
the open road. No other car was following us. I saw a path at the side
of the road. I told the man to wait.”

She paused, then went on. “The path led to the cliff, and down to the
sea between big yellow gorse bushes--they were like golden flames. I
looked round. There wasn’t a soul in sight. But just level with my head
there was a hole in the rock. It was quite small--I could only just get
my hand in, but it went a long way back. I took the oilskin packet from
round my neck and shoved it right in as far as I could. Then I tore off
a bit of gorse--My! but it did prick--and plugged the hole with it so
that you’d never guess there was a crevice of any kind there. Then I
marked the place carefully in my own mind, so that I’d find it again.
There was a queer boulder in the path just there--for all the world
like a dog sitting up begging. Then I went back to the road. The car was
waiting, and I drove back. I just caught the train. I was a bit ashamed
of myself for fancying things maybe, but, by and by, I saw the man
opposite me wink at a woman who was sitting next to me, and I felt
scared again, and was glad the papers were safe. I went out in the
corridor to get a little air. I thought I’d slip into another carriage.
But the woman called me back, said I’d dropped something, and when I
stooped to look, something seemed to hit me--here.” She placed her hand
to the back of her head. “I don’t remember anything more until I woke up
in the hospital.”

There was a pause.

“Thank you, Miss Finn.” It was Sir James who spoke. “I hope we have not
tired you?”

“Oh, that’s all right. My head aches a little, but otherwise I feel
fine.”

Julius stepped forward and took her hand again.

“So long, Cousin Jane. I’m going to get busy after those papers, but
I’ll be back in two shakes of a dog’s tail, and I’ll tote you up to
London and give you the time of your young life before we go back to the
States! I mean it--so hurry up and get well.”



CHAPTER XX. TOO LATE

IN the street they held an informal council of war. Sir James had drawn
a watch from his pocket. “The boat train to Holyhead stops at Chester at
12.14. If you start at once I think you can catch the connection.”

Tommy looked up, puzzled.

“Is there any need to hurry, sir? To-day is only the 24th.”

“I guess it’s always well to get up early in the morning,” said Julius,
before the lawyer had time to reply. “We’ll make tracks for the depot
right away.”

A little frown had settled on Sir James’s brow.

“I wish I could come with you. I am due to speak at a meeting at two
o’clock. It is unfortunate.”

The reluctance in his tone was very evident. It was clear, on the other
hand, that Julius was easily disposed to put up with the loss of the
other’s company.

“I guess there’s nothing complicated about this deal,” he remarked.
“Just a game of hide-and-seek, that’s all.”

“I hope so,” said Sir James.

“Sure thing. What else could it be?”

“You are still young, Mr. Hersheimmer. At my age you will probably have
learnt one lesson. ‘Never underestimate your adversary.’”

The gravity of his tone impressed Tommy, but had little effect upon
Julius.

“You think Mr. Brown might come along and take a hand? If he does, I’m
ready for him.” He slapped his pocket. “I carry a gun. Little Willie
here travels round with me everywhere.” He produced a murderous-looking
automatic, and tapped it affectionately before returning it to its
home. “But he won’t be needed this trip. There’s nobody to put Mr. Brown
wise.”

The lawyer shrugged his shoulders.

“There was nobody to put Mr. Brown wise to the fact that Mrs. Vandemeyer
meant to betray him. Nevertheless, _Mrs. Vandemeyer died without
speaking_.”

Julius was silenced for once, and Sir James added on a lighter note:

“I only want to put you on your guard. Good-bye, and good luck. Take
no unnecessary risks once the papers are in your hands. If there is any
reason to believe that you have been shadowed, destroy them at once.
Good luck to you. The game is in your hands now.” He shook hands with
them both.

Ten minutes later the two young men were seated in a first-class
carriage _en route_ for Chester.

For a long time neither of them spoke. When at length Julius broke the
silence, it was with a totally unexpected remark.

“Say,” he observed thoughtfully, “did you ever make a darned fool of
yourself over a girl’s face?”

Tommy, after a moment’s astonishment, searched his mind.

“Can’t say I have,” he replied at last. “Not that I can recollect,
anyhow. Why?”

“Because for the last two months I’ve been making a sentimental idiot of
myself over Jane! First moment I clapped eyes on her photograph my heart
did all the usual stunts you read about in novels. I guess I’m ashamed
to admit it, but I came over here determined to find her and fix it all
up, and take her back as Mrs. Julius P. Hersheimmer!”

“Oh!” said Tommy, amazed.

Julius uncrossed his legs brusquely and continued:

“Just shows what an almighty fool a man can make of himself! One look at
the girl in the flesh, and I was cured!”

Feeling more tongue-tied than ever, Tommy ejaculated “Oh!” again.

“No disparagement to Jane, mind you,” continued the other. “She’s a real
nice girl, and some fellow will fall in love with her right away.”

“I thought her a very good-looking girl,” said Tommy, finding his
tongue.

“Sure she is. But she’s not like her photo one bit. At least I suppose
she is in a way--must be--because I recognized her right off. If I’d
seen her in a crowd I’d have said ‘There’s a girl whose face I know’
right away without any hesitation. But there was something about that
photo”--Julius shook his head, and heaved a sigh--“I guess romance is a
mighty queer thing!”

“It must be,” said Tommy coldly, “if you can come over here in love with
one girl, and propose to another within a fortnight.”

Julius had the grace to look discomposed.

“Well, you see, I’d got a sort of tired feeling that I’d never find
Jane--and that it was all plumb foolishness anyway. And then--oh, well,
the French, for instance, are much more sensible in the way they look at
things. They keep romance and marriage apart----”

Tommy flushed.

“Well, I’m damned! If that’s----”

Julius hastened to interrupt.

“Say now, don’t be hasty. I don’t mean what you mean. I take it
Americans have a higher opinion of morality than you have even. What I
meant was that the French set about marriage in a businesslike way--find
two people who are suited to one another, look after the money affairs,
and see the whole thing practically, and in a businesslike spirit.”

“If you ask me,” said Tommy, “we’re all too damned businesslike
nowadays. We’re always saying, ‘Will it pay?’ The men are bad enough,
and the girls are worse!”

“Cool down, son. Don’t get so heated.”

“I feel heated,” said Tommy.

Julius looked at him and judged it wise to say no more.

However, Tommy had plenty of time to cool down before they reached
Holyhead, and the cheerful grin had returned to his countenance as they
alighted at their destination.

After consultation, and with the aid of a road map, they were fairly
well agreed as to direction, so were able to hire a taxi without more
ado and drive out on the road leading to Treaddur Bay. They instructed
the man to go slowly, and watched narrowly so as not to miss the path.
They came to it not long after leaving the town, and Tommy stopped the
car promptly, asked in a casual tone whether the path led down to the
sea, and hearing it did paid off the man in handsome style.

A moment later the taxi was slowly chugging back to Holyhead. Tommy and
Julius watched it out of sight, and then turned to the narrow path.

“It’s the right one, I suppose?” asked Tommy doubtfully. “There must be
simply heaps along here.”

“Sure it is. Look at the gorse. Remember what Jane said?”

Tommy looked at the swelling hedges of golden blossom which bordered the
path on either side, and was convinced.

They went down in single file, Julius leading. Twice Tommy turned his
head uneasily. Julius looked back.

“What is it?”

“I don’t know. I’ve got the wind up somehow. Keep fancying there’s some
one following us.”

“Can’t be,” said Julius positively. “We’d see him.”

Tommy had to admit that this was true. Nevertheless, his sense of
uneasiness deepened. In spite of himself he believed in the omniscience
of the enemy.

“I rather wish that fellow would come along,” said Julius. He patted his
pocket. “Little William here is just aching for exercise!”

“Do you always carry it--him--with you?” inquired Tommy with burning
curiosity.

“Most always. I guess you never know what might turn up.”

Tommy kept a respectful silence. He was impressed by little William. It
seemed to remove the menace of Mr. Brown farther away.

The path was now running along the side of the cliff, parallel to the
sea. Suddenly Julius came to such an abrupt halt that Tommy cannoned
into him.

“What’s up?” he inquired.

“Look there. If that doesn’t beat the band!”

Tommy looked. Standing out half obstructing the path was a huge boulder
which certainly bore a fanciful resemblance to a “begging” terrier.

“Well,” said Tommy, refusing to share Julius’s emotion, “it’s what we
expected to see, isn’t it?”

Julius looked at him sadly and shook his head.

“British phlegm! Sure we expected it--but it kind of rattles me, all the
same, to see it sitting there just where we expected to find it!”

Tommy, whose calm was, perhaps, more assumed than natural, moved his
feet impatiently.

“Push on. What about the hole?”

They scanned the cliff-side narrowly. Tommy heard himself saying
idiotically:

“The gorse won’t be there after all these years.”

And Julius replied solemnly:

“I guess you’re right.”

Tommy suddenly pointed with a shaking hand.

“What about that crevice there?”

Julius replied in an awestricken voice:

“That’s it--for sure.”

They looked at each other.

“When I was in France,” said Tommy reminiscently, “whenever my batman
failed to call me, he always said that he had come over queer. I never
believed it. But whether he felt it or not, there _is_ such a sensation.
I’ve got it now! Badly!”

He looked at the rock with a kind of agonized passion.

“Damn it!” he cried. “It’s impossible! Five years! Think of it!
Bird’s-nesting boys, picnic parties, thousands of people passing! It
can’t be there! It’s a hundred to one against its being there! It’s
against all reason!”

Indeed, he felt it to be impossible--more, perhaps, because he could not
believe in his own success where so many others had failed. The thing
was too easy, therefore it could not be. The hole would be empty.

Julius looked at him with a widening smile.

“I guess you’re rattled now all right,” he drawled with some enjoyment.
“Well, here goes!” He thrust his hand into the crevice, and made a
slight grimace. “It’s a tight fit. Jane’s hand must be a few sizes
smaller than mine. I don’t feel anything--no--say, what’s this? Gee
whiz!” And with a flourish he waved aloft a small discoloured packet.
“It’s the goods all right. Sewn up in oilskin. Hold it while I get my
penknife.”

The unbelievable had happened. Tommy held the precious packet tenderly
between his hands. They had succeeded!

“It’s queer,” he murmured idly, “you’d think the stitches would have
rotted. They look just as good as new.”

They cut them carefully and ripped away the oilskin. Inside was a small
folded sheet of paper. With trembling fingers they unfolded it. The
sheet was blank! They stared at each other, puzzled.

“A dummy?” hazarded Julius. “Was Danvers just a decoy?”

Tommy shook his head. That solution did not satisfy him. Suddenly his
face cleared.

“I’ve got it! _Sympathetic ink!_”

“You think so?”

“Worth trying anyhow. Heat usually does the trick. Get some sticks.
We’ll make a fire.”

In a few minutes the little fire of twigs and leaves was blazing
merrily. Tommy held the sheet of paper near the glow. The paper curled a
little with the heat. Nothing more.

Suddenly Julius grasped his arm, and pointed to where characters were
appearing in a faint brown colour.

“Gee whiz! You’ve got it! Say, that idea of yours was great. It never
occurred to me.”

Tommy held the paper in position some minutes longer until he judged the
heat had done its work. Then he withdrew it. A moment later he uttered a
cry.

Across the sheet in neat brown printing ran the words: WITH THE
COMPLIMENTS OF MR. BROWN.



CHAPTER XXI. TOMMY MAKES A DISCOVERY

FOR a moment or two they stood staring at each other stupidly, dazed
with the shock. Somehow, inexplicably, Mr. Brown had forestalled them.
Tommy accepted defeat quietly. Not so Julius.

“How in tarnation did he get ahead of us? That’s what beats me!” he
ended up.

Tommy shook his head, and said dully:

“It accounts for the stitches being new. We might have guessed....”

“Never mind the darned stitches. How did he get ahead of us? We hustled
all we knew. It’s downright impossible for anyone to get here quicker
than we did. And, anyway, how did he know? Do you reckon there was a
dictaphone in Jane’s room? I guess there must have been.”

But Tommy’s common sense pointed out objections.

“No one could have known beforehand that she was going to be in that
house--much less that particular room.”

“That’s so,” admitted Julius. “Then one of the nurses was a crook and
listened at the door. How’s that?”

“I don’t see that it matters anyway,” said Tommy wearily. “He may have
found out some months ago, and removed the papers, then----No, by Jove,
that won’t wash! They’d have been published at once.”

“Sure thing they would! No, some one’s got ahead of us to-day by an hour
or so. But how they did it gets my goat.”

“I wish that chap Peel Edgerton had been with us,” said Tommy
thoughtfully.

“Why?” Julius stared. “The mischief was done when we came.”

“Yes----” Tommy hesitated. He could not explain his own feeling--the
illogical idea that the K.C.’s presence would somehow have averted the
catastrophe. He reverted to his former point of view. “It’s no good
arguing about how it was done. The game’s up. We’ve failed. There’s only
one thing for me to do.”

“What’s that?”

“Get back to London as soon as possible. Mr. Carter must be warned. It’s
only a matter of hours now before the blow falls. But, at any rate, he
ought to know the worst.”

The duty was an unpleasant one, but Tommy had no intention of shirking
it. He must report his failure to Mr. Carter. After that his work was
done. He took the midnight mail to London. Julius elected to stay the
night at Holyhead.

Half an hour after arrival, haggard and pale, Tommy stood before his
chief.

“I’ve come to report, sir. I’ve failed--failed badly.”

Mr. Carter eyed him sharply.

“You mean that the treaty----”

“Is in the hands of Mr. Brown, sir.”

“Ah!” said Mr. Carter quietly. The expression on his face did not
change, but Tommy caught the flicker of despair in his eyes. It
convinced him as nothing else had done that the outlook was hopeless.

“Well,” said Mr. Carter after a minute or two, “we mustn’t sag at the
knees, I suppose. I’m glad to know definitely. We must do what we can.”

Through Tommy’s mind flashed the assurance: “It’s hopeless, and he knows
it’s hopeless!”

The other looked up at him.

“Don’t take it to heart, lad,” he said kindly. “You did your best. You
were up against one of the biggest brains of the century. And you came
very near success. Remember that.”

“Thank you, sir. It’s awfully decent of you.”

“I blame myself. I have been blaming myself ever since I heard this
other news.”

Something in his tone attracted Tommy’s attention. A new fear gripped at
his heart.

“Is there--something more, sir?”

“I’m afraid so,” said Mr. Carter gravely. He stretched out his hand to a
sheet on the table.

“Tuppence----?” faltered Tommy.

“Read for yourself.”

The typewritten words danced before his eyes. The description of a green
toque, a coat with a handkerchief in the pocket marked P.L.C. He looked
an agonized question at Mr. Carter. The latter replied to it:

“Washed up on the Yorkshire coast--near Ebury. I’m afraid--it looks very
much like foul play.”

“My God!” gasped Tommy. “_Tuppence!_ Those devils--I’ll never rest till
I’ve got even with them! I’ll hunt them down! I’ll----”

The pity on Mr. Carter’s face stopped him.

“I know what you feel like, my poor boy. But it’s no good. You’ll waste
your strength uselessly. It may sound harsh, but my advice to you is:
Cut your losses. Time’s merciful. You’ll forget.”

“Forget Tuppence? Never!”

Mr. Carter shook his head.

“So you think now. Well, it won’t bear thinking of--that brave little
girl! I’m sorry about the whole business--confoundedly sorry.”

Tommy came to himself with a start.

“I’m taking up your time, sir,” he said with an effort. “There’s no need
for you to blame yourself. I dare say we were a couple of young fools to
take on such a job. You warned us all right. But I wish to God I’d been
the one to get it in the neck. Good-bye, sir.”

Back at the _Ritz_, Tommy packed up his few belongings mechanically,
his thoughts far away. He was still bewildered by the introduction of
tragedy into his cheerful commonplace existence. What fun they had
had together, he and Tuppence! And now--oh, he couldn’t believe it--it
couldn’t be true! _Tuppence--dead!_ Little Tuppence, brimming over with
life! It was a dream, a horrible dream. Nothing more.

They brought him a note, a few kind words of sympathy from Peel
Edgerton, who had read the news in the paper. (There had been a large
headline: EX-V.A.D. FEARED DROWNED.) The letter ended with the offer
of a post on a ranch in the Argentine, where Sir James had considerable
interests.

“Kind old beggar,” muttered Tommy, as he flung it aside.

The door opened, and Julius burst in with his usual violence. He held an
open newspaper in his hand.

“Say, what’s all this? They seem to have got some fool idea about
Tuppence.”

“It’s true,” said Tommy quietly.

“You mean they’ve done her in?”

Tommy nodded.

“I suppose when they got the treaty she--wasn’t any good to them any
longer, and they were afraid to let her go.”

“Well, I’m darned!” said Julius. “Little Tuppence. She sure was the
pluckiest little girl----”

But suddenly something seemed to crack in Tommy’s brain. He rose to his
feet.

“Oh, get out! You don’t really care, damn you! You asked her to marry
you in your rotten cold-blooded way, but I _loved_ her. I’d have given
the soul out of my body to save her from harm. I’d have stood by without
a word and let her marry you, because you could have given her the sort
of time she ought to have had, and I was only a poor devil without a
penny to bless himself with. But it wouldn’t have been because I didn’t
care!”

“See here,” began Julius temperately.

“Oh, go to the devil! I can’t stand your coming here and talking about
‘little Tuppence.’ Go and look after your cousin. Tuppence is my girl!
I’ve always loved her, from the time we played together as kids. We
grew up and it was just the same. I shall never forget when I was in
hospital, and she came in in that ridiculous cap and apron! It was like
a miracle to see the girl I loved turn up in a nurse’s kit----”

But Julius interrupted him.

“A nurse’s kit! Gee whiz! I must be going to Colney Hatch! I could swear
I’ve seen Jane in a nurse’s cap too. And that’s plumb impossible! No,
by gum, I’ve got it! It was her I saw talking to Whittington at that
nursing home in Bournemouth. She wasn’t a patient there! She was a
nurse!”

“I dare say,” said Tommy angrily, “she’s probably been in with them from
the start. I shouldn’t wonder if she stole those papers from Danvers to
begin with.”

“I’m darned if she did!” shouted Julius. “She’s my cousin, and as
patriotic a girl as ever stepped.”

“I don’t care a damn what she is, but get out of here!” retorted Tommy
also at the top of his voice.

The young men were on the point of coming to blows. But suddenly, with
an almost magical abruptness, Julius’s anger abated.

“All right, son,” he said quietly, “I’m going. I don’t blame you any for
what you’ve been saying. It’s mighty lucky you did say it. I’ve been
the most almighty blithering darned idiot that it’s possible to imagine.
Calm down”--Tommy had made an impatient gesture--“I’m going right away
now--going to the London and North Western Railway depot, if you want to
know.”

“I don’t care a damn where you’re going,” growled Tommy.

As the door closed behind Julius, he returned to his suit-case.

“That’s the lot,” he murmured, and rang the bell.

“Take my luggage down.”

“Yes, sir. Going away, sir?”

“I’m going to the devil,” said Tommy, regardless of the menial’s
feelings.

That functionary, however, merely replied respectfully:

“Yes, sir. Shall I call a taxi?”

Tommy nodded.

Where was he going? He hadn’t the faintest idea. Beyond a fixed
determination to get even with Mr. Brown he had no plans. He re-read Sir
James’s letter, and shook his head. Tuppence must be avenged. Still, it
was kind of the old fellow.

“Better answer it, I suppose.” He went across to the writing-table.
With the usual perversity of bedroom stationery, there were innumerable
envelopes and no paper. He rang. No one came. Tommy fumed at the
delay. Then he remembered that there was a good supply in Julius’s
sitting-room. The American had announced his immediate departure, there
would be no fear of running up against him. Besides, he wouldn’t mind if
he did. He was beginning to be rather ashamed of the things he had said.
Old Julius had taken them jolly well. He’d apologize if he found him
there.

But the room was deserted. Tommy walked across to the writing-table,
and opened the middle drawer. A photograph, carelessly thrust in face
upwards, caught his eye. For a moment he stood rooted to the ground.
Then he took it out, shut the drawer, walked slowly over to an
arm-chair, and sat down still staring at the photograph in his hand.

What on earth was a photograph of the French girl Annette doing in
Julius Hersheimmer’s writing-table?



CHAPTER XXII. IN DOWNING STREET

THE Prime Minister tapped the desk in front of him with nervous fingers.
His face was worn and harassed. He took up his conversation with Mr.
Carter at the point it had broken off. “I don’t understand,” he said.
“Do you really mean that things are not so desperate after all?”

“So this lad seems to think.”

“Let’s have a look at his letter again.”

Mr. Carter handed it over. It was written in a sprawling boyish hand.

“DEAR MR. CARTER,

“Something’s turned up that has given me a jar. Of course I may be
simply making an awful ass of myself, but I don’t think so. If my
conclusions are right, that girl at Manchester was just a plant. The
whole thing was prearranged, sham packet and all, with the object of
making us think the game was up--therefore I fancy that we must have
been pretty hot on the scent.

“I think I know who the real Jane Finn is, and I’ve even got an idea
where the papers are. That last’s only a guess, of course, but I’ve a
sort of feeling it’ll turn out right. Anyhow, I enclose it in a sealed
envelope for what it’s worth. I’m going to ask you not to open it until
the very last moment, midnight on the 28th, in fact. You’ll understand
why in a minute. You see, I’ve figured it out that those things of
Tuppence’s are a plant too, and she’s no more drowned than I am. The way
I reason is this: as a last chance they’ll let Jane Finn escape in
the hope that she’s been shamming this memory stunt, and that once she
thinks she’s free she’ll go right away to the cache. Of course it’s
an awful risk for them to take, because she knows all about them--but
they’re pretty desperate to get hold of that treaty. _But if they know
that the papers have been recovered by us_, neither of those two girls’
lives will be worth an hour’s purchase. I must try and get hold of
Tuppence before Jane escapes.

“I want a repeat of that telegram that was sent to Tuppence at the
_Ritz_. Sir James Peel Edgerton said you would be able to manage that
for me. He’s frightfully clever.

“One last thing--please have that house in Soho watched day and night.

“Yours, etc.,

“THOMAS BERESFORD.”

The Prime Minister looked up.

“The enclosure?”

Mr. Carter smiled dryly.

“In the vaults of the Bank. I am taking no chances.”

“You don’t think”--the Prime Minister hesitated a minute--“that it would
be better to open it now? Surely we ought to secure the document, that
is, provided the young man’s guess turns out to be correct, at once. We
can keep the fact of having done so quite secret.”

“Can we? I’m not so sure. There are spies all round us. Once it’s known
I wouldn’t give that”--he snapped his fingers--“for the life of those
two girls. No, the boy trusted me, and I shan’t let him down.”

“Well, well, we must leave it at that, then. What’s he like, this lad?”

“Outwardly, he’s an ordinary clean-limbed, rather block-headed young
Englishman. Slow in his mental processes. On the other hand, it’s quite
impossible to lead him astray through his imagination. He hasn’t got
any--so he’s difficult to deceive. He worries things out slowly, and
once he’s got hold of anything he doesn’t let go. The little lady’s
quite different. More intuition and less common sense. They make a
pretty pair working together. Pace and stamina.”

“He seems confident,” mused the Prime Minister.

“Yes, and that’s what gives me hope. He’s the kind of diffident youth
who would have to be _very_ sure before he ventured an opinion at all.”

A half smile came to the other’s lips.

“And it is this--boy who will defeat the master criminal of our time?”

“This--boy, as you say! But I sometimes fancy I see a shadow behind.”

“You mean?”

“Peel Edgerton.”

“Peel Edgerton?” said the Prime Minister in astonishment.

“Yes. I see his hand in _this_.” He struck the open letter. “He’s
there--working in the dark, silently, unobtrusively. I’ve always felt
that if anyone was to run Mr. Brown to earth, Peel Edgerton would be the
man. I tell you he’s on the case now, but doesn’t want it known. By the
way, I got rather an odd request from him the other day.”

“Yes?”

“He sent me a cutting from some American paper. It referred to a man’s
body found near the docks in New York about three weeks ago. He asked me
to collect any information on the subject I could.”

“Well?”

Carter shrugged his shoulders.

“I couldn’t get much. Young fellow about thirty-five--poorly
dressed--face very badly disfigured. He was never identified.”

“And you fancy that the two matters are connected in some way?”

“Somehow I do. I may be wrong, of course.”

There was a pause, then Mr. Carter continued:

“I asked him to come round here. Not that we’ll get anything out of him
he doesn’t want to tell. His legal instincts are too strong. But there’s
no doubt he can throw light on one or two obscure points in young
Beresford’s letter. Ah, here he is!”

The two men rose to greet the new-comer. A half whimsical thought
flashed across the Premier’s mind. “My successor, perhaps!”

“We’ve had a letter from young Beresford,” said Mr. Carter, coming to
the point at once. “You’ve seen him, I suppose?”

“You suppose wrong,” said the lawyer.

“Oh!” Mr. Carter was a little nonplussed.

Sir James smiled, and stroked his chin.

“He rang me up,” he volunteered.

“Would you have any objection to telling us exactly what passed between
you?”

“Not at all. He thanked me for a certain letter which I had written to
him--as a matter of fact, I had offered him a job. Then he reminded
me of something I had said to him at Manchester respecting that bogus
telegram which lured Miss Cowley away. I asked him if anything untoward
had occurred. He said it had--that in a drawer in Mr. Hersheimmer’s room
he had discovered a photograph.” The lawyer paused, then continued: “I
asked him if the photograph bore the name and address of a Californian
photographer. He replied: ‘You’re on to it, sir. It had.’ Then he went
on to tell me something I _didn’t_ know. The original of that photograph
was the French girl, Annette, who saved his life.”

“What?”

“Exactly. I asked the young man with some curiosity what he had done
with the photograph. He replied that he had put it back where he found
it.” The lawyer paused again. “That was good, you know--distinctly
good. He can use his brains, that young fellow. I congratulated him. The
discovery was a providential one. Of course, from the moment that the
girl in Manchester was proved to be a plant everything was altered.
Young Beresford saw that for himself without my having to tell it
him. But he felt he couldn’t trust his judgment on the subject of
Miss Cowley. Did I think she was alive? I told him, duly weighing the
evidence, that there was a very decided chance in favour of it. That
brought us back to the telegram.”

“Yes?”

“I advised him to apply to you for a copy of the original wire. It
had occurred to me as probable that, after Miss Cowley flung it on the
floor, certain words might have been erased and altered with the express
intention of setting searchers on a false trail.”

Carter nodded. He took a sheet from his pocket, and read aloud:

“Come at once, Astley Priors, Gatehouse, Kent. Great
developments--TOMMY.”

“Very simple,” said Sir James, “and very ingenious. Just a few words
to alter, and the thing was done. And the one important clue they
overlooked.”

“What was that?”

“The page-boy’s statement that Miss Cowley drove to Charing Cross. They
were so sure of themselves that they took it for granted he had made a
mistake.”

“Then young Beresford is now?”

“At Gatehouse, Kent, unless I am much mistaken.”

Mr. Carter looked at him curiously.

“I rather wonder you’re not there too, Peel Edgerton?”

“Ah, I’m busy on a case.”

“I thought you were on your holiday?”

“Oh, I’ve not been briefed. Perhaps it would be more correct to say I’m
preparing a case. Any more facts about that American chap for me?”

“I’m afraid not. Is it important to find out who he was?”

“Oh, I know who he was,” said Sir James easily. “I can’t prove it
yet--but I know.”

The other two asked no questions. They had an instinct that it would be
mere waste of breath.

“But what I don’t understand,” said the Prime-Minister suddenly, “is how
that photograph came to be in Mr. Hersheimmer’s drawer?”

“Perhaps it never left it,” suggested the lawyer gently.

“But the bogus inspector? Inspector Brown?”

“Ah!” said Sir James thoughtfully. He rose to his feet. “I mustn’t keep
you. Go on with the affairs of the nation. I must get back to--my case.”

Two days later Julius Hersheimmer returned from Manchester. A note from
Tommy lay on his table:

“DEAR HERSHEIMMER,

“Sorry I lost my temper. In case I don’t see you again, good-bye. I’ve
been offered a job in the Argentine, and might as well take it.

“Yours,

“TOMMY BERESFORD.”

A peculiar smile lingered for a moment on Julius’s face. He threw the
letter into the waste-paper basket.

“The darned fool!” he murmured.



CHAPTER XXIII. A RACE AGAINST TIME

AFTER ringing up Sir James, Tommy’s next procedure was to make a call
at South Audley Mansions. He found Albert discharging his professional
duties, and introduced himself without more ado as a friend of
Tuppence’s. Albert unbent immediately.

“Things has been very quiet here lately,” he said wistfully. “Hope the
young lady’s keeping well, sir?”

“That’s just the point, Albert. She’s disappeared.”

“You don’t mean as the crooks have got her?”

“They have.”

“In the Underworld?”

“No, dash it all, in this world!”

“It’s a h’expression, sir,” explained Albert. “At the pictures the
crooks always have a restoorant in the Underworld. But do you think as
they’ve done her in, sir?”

“I hope not. By the way, have you by any chance an aunt, a cousin,
a grandmother, or any other suitable female relation who might be
represented as being likely to kick the bucket?”

A delighted grin spread slowly over Albert’s countenance.

“I’m on, sir. My poor aunt what lives in the country has been mortal bad
for a long time, and she’s asking for me with her dying breath.”

Tommy nodded approval.

“Can you report this in the proper quarter and meet me at Charing Cross
in an hour’s time?”

“I’ll be there, sir. You can count on me.”

As Tommy had judged, the faithful Albert proved an invaluable ally. The
two took up their quarters at the inn in Gatehouse. To Albert fell the
task of collecting information. There was no difficulty about it.

Astley Priors was the property of a Dr. Adams. The doctor no longer
practiced, had retired, the landlord believed, but he took a few private
patients--here the good fellow tapped his forehead knowingly--“balmy
ones! You understand!” The doctor was a popular figure in the village,
subscribed freely to all the local sports--“a very pleasant, affable
gentleman.” Been there long? Oh, a matter of ten years or so--might be
longer. Scientific gentleman, he was. Professors and people often came
down from town to see him. Anyway, it was a gay house, always visitors.

In the face of all this volubility, Tommy felt doubts. Was it possible
that this genial, well-known figure could be in reality a dangerous
criminal? His life seemed so open and aboveboard. No hint of sinister
doings. Suppose it was all a gigantic mistake? Tommy felt a cold chill
at the thought.

Then he remembered the private patients--“balmy ones.” He inquired
carefully if there was a young lady amongst them, describing Tuppence.
But nothing much seemed to be known about the patients--they were seldom
seen outside the grounds. A guarded description of Annette also failed
to provoke recognition.

Astley Priors was a pleasant red-brick edifice, surrounded by
well-wooded grounds which effectually shielded the house from
observation from the road.

On the first evening Tommy, accompanied by Albert, explored the grounds.
Owing to Albert’s insistence they dragged themselves along painfully on
their stomachs, thereby producing a great deal more noise than if
they had stood upright. In any case, these precautions were totally
unnecessary. The grounds, like those of any other private house after
nightfall, seemed untenanted. Tommy had imagined a possible fierce
watchdog. Albert’s fancy ran to a puma, or a tame cobra. But they
reached a shrubbery near the house quite unmolested.

The blinds of the dining-room window were up. There was a large company
assembled round the table. The port was passing from hand to hand. It
seemed a normal, pleasant company. Through the open window scraps of
conversation floated out disjointedly on the night air. It was a heated
discussion on county cricket!

Again Tommy felt that cold chill of uncertainty. It seemed impossible
to believe that these people were other than they seemed. Had he been
fooled once more? The fair-bearded, spectacled gentleman who sat at the
head of the table looked singularly honest and normal.

Tommy slept badly that night. The following morning the indefatigable
Albert, having cemented an alliance with the greengrocer’s boy, took the
latter’s place and ingratiated himself with the cook at Malthouse.
He returned with the information that she was undoubtedly “one of
the crooks,” but Tommy mistrusted the vividness of his imagination.
Questioned, he could adduce nothing in support of his statement except
his own opinion that she wasn’t the usual kind. You could see that at a
glance.

The substitution being repeated (much to the pecuniary advantage of the
real greengrocer’s boy) on the following day, Albert brought back the
first piece of hopeful news. There _was_ a French young lady staying
in the house. Tommy put his doubts aside. Here was confirmation of
his theory. But time pressed. To-day was the 27th. The 29th was the
much-talked-of “Labour Day,” about which all sorts of rumours were
running riot. Newspapers were getting agitated. Sensational hints of a
Labour _coup d’état_ were freely reported. The Government said nothing.
It knew and was prepared. There were rumours of dissension among the
Labour leaders. They were not of one mind. The more far-seeing among
them realized that what they proposed might well be a death-blow to the
England that at heart they loved. They shrank from the starvation and
misery a general strike would entail, and were willing to meet the
Government half-way. But behind them were subtle, insistent forces at
work, urging the memories of old wrongs, deprecating the weakness of
half-and-half measures, fomenting misunderstandings.

Tommy felt that, thanks to Mr. Carter, he understood the position fairly
accurately. With the fatal document in the hands of Mr. Brown,
public opinion would swing to the side of the Labour extremists and
revolutionists. Failing that, the battle was an even chance. The
Government with a loyal army and police force behind them might
win--but at a cost of great suffering. But Tommy nourished another and
a preposterous dream. With Mr. Brown unmasked and captured he
believed, rightly or wrongly, that the whole organization would crumble
ignominiously and instantaneously. The strange permeating influence
of the unseen chief held it together. Without him, Tommy believed an
instant panic would set in; and, the honest men left to themselves, an
eleventh-hour reconciliation would be possible.

“This is a one-man show,” said Tommy to himself. “The thing to do is to
get hold of the man.”

It was partly in furtherance of this ambitious design that he had
requested Mr. Carter not to open the sealed envelope. The draft
treaty was Tommy’s bait. Every now and then he was aghast at his own
presumption. How dared he think that he had discovered what so many
wiser and clever men had overlooked? Nevertheless, he stuck tenaciously
to his idea.

That evening he and Albert once more penetrated the grounds of Astley
Priors. Tommy’s ambition was somehow or other to gain admission to the
house itself. As they approached cautiously, Tommy gave a sudden gasp.

On the second floor window some one standing between the window and
the light in the room threw a silhouette on the blind. It was one Tommy
would have recognized anywhere! Tuppence was in that house!

He clutched Albert by the shoulder.

“Stay here! When I begin to sing, watch that window.”

He retreated hastily to a position on the main drive, and began in a
deep roar, coupled with an unsteady gait, the following ditty:


          I am a Soldier
          A jolly British Soldier;
          You can see that I’m a Soldier by my feet....

It had been a favourite on the gramophone in Tuppence’s hospital days.
He did not doubt but that she would recognize it and draw her own
conclusions. Tommy had not a note of music in his voice, but his lungs
were excellent. The noise he produced was terrific.

Presently an unimpeachable butler, accompanied by an equally
unimpeachable footman, issued from the front door. The butler
remonstrated with him. Tommy continued to sing, addressing the butler
affectionately as “dear old whiskers.” The footman took him by one arm,
the butler by the other. They ran him down the drive, and neatly out
of the gate. The butler threatened him with the police if he intruded
again. It was beautifully done--soberly and with perfect decorum. Anyone
would have sworn that the butler was a real butler, the footman a real
footman--only, as it happened, the butler was Whittington!

Tommy retired to the inn and waited for Albert’s return. At last that
worthy made his appearance.

“Well?” cried Tommy eagerly.

“It’s all right. While they was a-running of you out the window opened,
and something was chucked out.” He handed a scrap of paper to Tommy. “It
was wrapped round a letterweight.”

On the paper were scrawled three words: “To-morrow--same time.”

“Good egg!” cried Tommy. “We’re getting going.”

“I wrote a message on a piece of paper, wrapped it round a stone, and
chucked it through the window,” continued Albert breathlessly.

Tommy groaned.

“Your zeal will be the undoing of us, Albert. What did you say?”

“Said we was a-staying at the inn. If she could get away, to come there
and croak like a frog.”

“She’ll know that’s you,” said Tommy with a sigh of relief. “Your
imagination runs away with you, you know, Albert. Why, you wouldn’t
recognize a frog croaking if you heard it.”

Albert looked rather crest-fallen.

“Cheer up,” said Tommy. “No harm done. That butler’s an old friend of
mine--I bet he knew who I was, though he didn’t let on. It’s not their
game to show suspicion. That’s why we’ve found it fairly plain sailing.
They don’t want to discourage me altogether. On the other hand, they
don’t want to make it too easy. I’m a pawn in their game, Albert, that’s
what I am. You see, if the spider lets the fly walk out too easily,
the fly might suspect it was a put-up job. Hence the usefulness of that
promising youth, Mr. T. Beresford, who’s blundered in just at the right
moment for them. But later, Mr. T. Beresford had better look out!”

Tommy retired for the night in a state of some elation. He had
elaborated a careful plan for the following evening. He felt sure that
the inhabitants of Astley Priors would not interfere with him up to
a certain point. It was after that that Tommy proposed to give them a
surprise.

About twelve o’clock, however, his calm was rudely shaken. He was told
that some one was demanding him in the bar. The applicant proved to be a
rude-looking carter well coated with mud.

“Well, my good fellow, what is it?” asked Tommy.

“Might this be for you, sir?” The carter held out a very dirty folded
note, on the outside of which was written: “Take this to the gentleman
at the inn near Astley Priors. He will give you ten shillings.”

The handwriting was Tuppence’s. Tommy appreciated her quick-wittedness
in realizing that he might be staying at the inn under an assumed name.
He snatched at it.

“That’s all right.”

The man withheld it.

“What about my ten shillings?”

Tommy hastily produced a ten-shilling note, and the man relinquished his
find. Tommy unfastened it.

“DEAR TOMMY,

“I knew it was you last night. Don’t go this evening. They’ll be lying
in wait for you. They’re taking us away this morning. I heard something
about Wales--Holyhead, I think. I’ll drop this on the road if I get a
chance. Annette told me how you’d escaped. Buck up.

“Yours,

“TWOPENCE.”

Tommy raised a shout for Albert before he had even finished perusing
this characteristic epistle.

“Pack my bag! We’re off!”

“Yes, sir.” The boots of Albert could be heard racing upstairs.
Holyhead? Did that mean that, after all---- Tommy was puzzled. He read
on slowly.

The boots of Albert continued to be active on the floor above.

Suddenly a second shout came from below.

“Albert! I’m a damned fool! Unpack that bag!”

“Yes, sir.”

Tommy smoothed out the note thoughtfully.

“Yes, a damned fool,” he said softly. “But so’s some one else! And at
last I know who it is!”



CHAPTER XXIV. JULIUS TAKES A HAND

IN his suite at Claridge’s, Kramenin reclined on a couch and dictated to
his secretary in sibilant Russian.

Presently the telephone at the secretary’s elbow purred, and he took up
the receiver, spoke for a minute or two, then turned to his employer.

“Some one below is asking for you.”

“Who is it?”

“He gives the name of Mr. Julius P. Hersheimmer.”

“Hersheimmer,” repeated Kramenin thoughtfully. “I have heard that name
before.”

“His father was one of the steel kings of America,” explained the
secretary, whose business it was to know everything. “This young man
must be a millionaire several times over.”

The other’s eyes narrowed appreciatively.

“You had better go down and see him, Ivan. Find out what he wants.”

The secretary obeyed, closing the door noiselessly behind him. In a few
minutes he returned.

“He declines to state his business--says it is entirely private and
personal, and that he must see you.”

“A millionaire several times over,” murmured Kramenin. “Bring him up, my
dear Ivan.”

The secretary left the room once more, and returned escorting Julius.

“Monsieur Kramenin?” said the latter abruptly.

The Russian, studying him attentively with his pale venomous eyes,
bowed.

“Pleased to meet you,” said the American. “I’ve got some very important
business I’d like to talk over with you, if I can see you alone.” He
looked pointedly at the other.

“My secretary, Monsieur Grieber, from whom I have no secrets.”

“That may be so--but I have,” said Julius dryly. “So I’d be obliged if
you’d tell him to scoot.”

“Ivan,” said the Russian softly, “perhaps you would not mind retiring
into the next room----”

“The next room won’t do,” interrupted Julius. “I know these ducal
suites--and I want this one plumb empty except for you and me. Send him
round to a store to buy a penn’orth of peanuts.”

Though not particularly enjoying the American’s free and easy manner
of speech, Kramenin was devoured by curiosity. “Will your business take
long to state?”

“Might be an all night job if you caught on.”

“Very good, Ivan. I shall not require you again this evening. Go to the
theatre--take a night off.”

“Thank you, your excellency.”

The secretary bowed and departed.

Julius stood at the door watching his retreat. Finally, with a satisfied
sigh, he closed it, and came back to his position in the centre of the
room.

“Now, Mr. Hersheimmer, perhaps you will be so kind as to come to the
point?”

“I guess that won’t take a minute,” drawled Julius. Then, with an abrupt
change of manner: “Hands up--or I shoot!”

For a moment Kramenin stared blindly into the big automatic, then, with
almost comical haste, he flung up his hands above his head. In that
instant Julius had taken his measure. The man he had to deal with was an
abject physical coward--the rest would be easy.

“This is an outrage,” cried the Russian in a high hysterical voice. “An
outrage! Do you mean to kill me?”

“Not if you keep your voice down. Don’t go edging sideways towards that
bell. That’s better.”

“What do you want? Do nothing rashly. Remember my life is of the utmost
value to my country. I may have been maligned----”

“I reckon,” said Julius, “that the man who let daylight into you would
be doing humanity a good turn. But you needn’t worry any. I’m not
proposing to kill you this trip--that is, if you’re reasonable.”

The Russian quailed before the stern menace in the other’s eyes. He
passed his tongue over his dry lips.

“What do you want? Money?”

“No. I want Jane Finn.”

“Jane Finn? I--never heard of her!”

“You’re a darned liar! You know perfectly who I mean.”

“I tell you I’ve never heard of the girl.”

“And I tell you,” retorted Julius, “that Little Willie here is just
hopping mad to go off!”

The Russian wilted visibly.

“You wouldn’t dare----”

“Oh, yes, I would, son!”

Kramenin must have recognized something in the voice that carried
conviction, for he said sullenly:

“Well? Granted I do know who you mean--what of it?”

“You will tell me now--right here--where she is to be found.”

Kramenin shook his head.

“I daren’t.”

“Why not?”

“I daren’t. You ask an impossibility.”

“Afraid, eh? Of whom? Mr. Brown? Ah, that tickles you up! There is such
a person, then? I doubted it. And the mere mention of him scares you
stiff!”

“I have seen him,” said the Russian slowly. “Spoken to him face to face.
I did not know it until afterwards. He was one of a crowd. I should not
know him again. Who is he really? I do not know. But I know this--he is
a man to fear.”

“He’ll never know,” said Julius.

“He knows everything--and his vengeance is swift. Even
I--Kramenin!--would not be exempt!”

“Then you won’t do as I ask you?”

“You ask an impossibility.”

“Sure that’s a pity for you,” said Julius cheerfully. “But the world in
general will benefit.” He raised the revolver.

“Stop,” shrieked the Russian. “You cannot mean to shoot me?”

“Of course I do. I’ve always heard you Revolutionists held life cheap,
but it seems there’s a difference when it’s your own life in question.
I gave you just one chance of saving your dirty skin, and that you
wouldn’t take!”

“They would kill me!”

“Well,” said Julius pleasantly, “it’s up to you. But I’ll just say this.
Little Willie here is a dead cert, and if I was you I’d take a sporting
chance with Mr. Brown!”

“You will hang if you shoot me,” muttered the Russian irresolutely.

“No, stranger, that’s where you’re wrong. You forget the dollars. A
big crowd of solicitors will get busy, and they’ll get some high-brow
doctors on the job, and the end of it all will be that they’ll say my
brain was unhinged. I shall spend a few months in a quiet sanatorium, my
mental health will improve, the doctors will declare me sane again, and
all will end happily for little Julius. I guess I can bear a few months’
retirement in order to rid the world of you, but don’t you kid yourself
I’ll hang for it!”

The Russian believed him. Corrupt himself, he believed implicitly in the
power of money. He had read of American murder trials running much on
the lines indicated by Julius. He had bought and sold justice himself.
This virile young American, with the significant drawling voice, had the
whip hand of him.

“I’m going to count five,” continued Julius, “and I guess, if you let me
get past four, you needn’t worry any about Mr. Brown. Maybe he’ll send
some flowers to the funeral, but _you_ won’t smell them! Are you ready?
I’ll begin. One--two--three--four----”

The Russian interrupted with a shriek:

“Do not shoot. I will do all you wish.”

Julius lowered the revolver.

“I thought you’d hear sense. Where is the girl?”

“At Gatehouse, in Kent. Astley Priors, the place is called.”

“Is she a prisoner there?”

“She’s not allowed to leave the house--though it’s safe enough really.
The little fool has lost her memory, curse her!”

“That’s been annoying for you and your friends, I reckon. What about the
other girl, the one you decoyed away over a week ago?”

“She’s there too,” said the Russian sullenly.

“That’s good,” said Julius. “Isn’t it all panning out beautifully? And a
lovely night for the run!”

“What run?” demanded Kramenin, with a stare.

“Down to Gatehouse, sure. I hope you’re fond of motoring?”

“What do you mean? I refuse to go.”

“Now don’t get mad. You must see I’m not such a kid as to leave you
here. You’d ring up your friends on that telephone first thing! Ah!” He
observed the fall on the other’s face. “You see, you’d got it all fixed.
No, sir, you’re coming along with me. This your bedroom next door here?
Walk right in. Little Willie and I will come behind. Put on a thick
coat, that’s right. Fur lined? And you a Socialist! Now we’re ready. We
walk downstairs and out through the hall to where my car’s waiting. And
don’t you forget I’ve got you covered every inch of the way. I can shoot
just as well through my coat pocket. One word, or a glance even, at one
of those liveried menials, and there’ll sure be a strange face in the
Sulphur and Brimstone Works!”

Together they descended the stairs, and passed out to the waiting car.
The Russian was shaking with rage. The hotel servants surrounded them.
A cry hovered on his lips, but at the last minute his nerve failed him.
The American was a man of his word.

When they reached the car, Julius breathed a sigh of relief. The
danger-zone was passed. Fear had successfully hypnotized the man by his
side.

“Get in,” he ordered. Then as he caught the other’s sidelong glance,
“No, the chauffeur won’t help you any. Naval man. Was on a submarine in
Russia when the Revolution broke out. A brother of his was murdered by
your people. George!”

“Yes, sir?” The chauffeur turned his head.

“This gentleman is a Russian Bolshevik. We don’t want to shoot him, but
it may be necessary. You understand?”

“Perfectly, sir.”

“I want to go to Gatehouse in Kent. Know the road at all?”

“Yes, sir, it will be about an hour and a half’s run.”

“Make it an hour. I’m in a hurry.”

“I’ll do my best, sir.” The car shot forward through the traffic.

Julius ensconced himself comfortably by the side of his victim. He kept
his hand in the pocket of his coat, but his manner was urbane to the
last degree.

“There was a man I shot once in Arizona----” he began cheerfully.

At the end of the hour’s run the unfortunate Kramenin was more dead than
alive. In succession to the anecdote of the Arizona man, there had been
a tough from ‘Frisco, and an episode in the Rockies. Julius’s narrative
style, if not strictly accurate, was picturesque!

Slowing down, the chauffeur called over his shoulder that they were just
coming into Gatehouse. Julius bade the Russian direct them. His plan was
to drive straight up to the house. There Kramenin was to ask for the two
girls. Julius explained to him that Little Willie would not be tolerant
of failure. Kramenin, by this time, was as putty in the other’s hands.
The terrific pace they had come had still further unmanned him. He had
given himself up for dead at every corner.

The car swept up the drive, and stopped before the porch. The chauffeur
looked round for orders.

“Turn the car first, George. Then ring the bell, and get back to your
place. Keep the engine going, and be ready to scoot like hell when I
give the word.”

“Very good, sir.”

The front door was opened by the butler. Kramenin felt the muzzle of the
revolver pressed against his ribs.

“Now,” hissed Julius. “And be careful.”

The Russian beckoned. His lips were white, and his voice was not very
steady:

“It is I--Kramenin! Bring down the girl at once! There is no time to
lose!”

Whittington had come down the steps. He uttered an exclamation of
astonishment at seeing the other.

“You! What’s up? Surely you know the plan----”

Kramenin interrupted him, using the words that have created many
unnecessary panics:

“We have been betrayed! Plans must be abandoned. We must save our own
skins. The girl! And at once! It’s our only chance.”

Whittington hesitated, but for hardly a moment.

“You have orders--from _him?_”

“Naturally! Should I be here otherwise? Hurry! There is no time to be
lost. The other little fool had better come too.”

Whittington turned and ran back into the house. The agonizing minutes
went by. Then--two figures hastily huddled in cloaks appeared on the
steps and were hustled into the car. The smaller of the two was inclined
to resist and Whittington shoved her in unceremoniously. Julius leaned
forward, and in doing so the light from the open door lit up his face.
Another man on the steps behind Whittington gave a startled exclamation.
Concealment was at an end.

“Get a move on, George,” shouted Julius.

The chauffeur slipped in his clutch, and with a bound the car started.

The man on the steps uttered an oath. His hand went to his pocket. There
was a flash and a report. The bullet just missed the taller girl by an
inch.

“Get down, Jane,” cried Julius. “Flat on the bottom of the car.” He
thrust her sharply forward, then standing up, he took careful aim and
fired.

“Have you hit him?” cried Tuppence eagerly.

“Sure,” replied Julius. “He isn’t killed, though. Skunks like that take
a lot of killing. Are you all right, Tuppence?”

“Of course I am. Where’s Tommy? And who’s this?” She indicated the
shivering Kramenin.

“Tommy’s making tracks for the Argentine. I guess he thought you’d
turned up your toes. Steady through the gate, George! That’s right.
It’ll take ‘em at least five minutes to get busy after us. They’ll use
the telephone, I guess, so look out for snares ahead--and don’t take the
direct route. Who’s this, did you say, Tuppence? Let me present Monsieur
Kramenin. I persuaded him to come on the trip for his health.”

The Russian remained mute, still livid with terror.

“But what made them let us go?” demanded Tuppence suspiciously.

“I reckon Monsieur Kramenin here asked them so prettily they just
couldn’t refuse!”

This was too much for the Russian. He burst out vehemently:

“Curse you--curse you! They know now that I betrayed them. My life won’t
be safe for an hour in this country.”

“That’s so,” assented Julius. “I’d advise you to make tracks for Russia
right away.”

“Let me go, then,” cried the other. “I have done what you asked. Why do
you still keep me with you?”

“Not for the pleasure of your company. I guess you can get right off now
if you want to. I thought you’d rather I tooled you back to London.”

“You may never reach London,” snarled the other. “Let me go here and
now.”

“Sure thing. Pull up, George. The gentleman’s not making the return
trip. If I ever come to Russia, Monsieur Kramenin, I shall expect a
rousing welcome, and----”

But before Julius had finished his speech, and before the car had
finally halted, the Russian had swung himself out and disappeared into
the night.

“Just a mite impatient to leave us,” commented Julius, as the car
gathered way again. “And no idea of saying good-bye politely to the
ladies. Say, Jane, you can get up on the seat now.”

For the first time the girl spoke.

“How did you ‘persuade’ him?” she asked.

Julius tapped his revolver.

“Little Willie here takes the credit!”

“Splendid!” cried the girl. The colour surged into her face, her eyes
looked admiringly at Julius.

“Annette and I didn’t know what was going to happen to us,” said
Tuppence. “Old Whittington hurried us off. _We_ thought it was lambs to
the slaughter.”

“Annette,” said Julius. “Is that what you call her?”

His mind seemed to be trying to adjust itself to a new idea.

“It’s her name,” said Tuppence, opening her eyes very wide.

“Shucks!” retorted Julius. “She may think it’s her name, because her
memory’s gone, poor kid. But it’s the one real and original Jane Finn
we’ve got here.”

“What?” cried Tuppence.

But she was interrupted. With an angry spurt, a bullet embedded itself
in the upholstery of the car just behind her head.

“Down with you,” cried Julius. “It’s an ambush. These guys have got busy
pretty quickly. Push her a bit, George.”

The car fairly leapt forward. Three more shots rang out, but went
happily wide. Julius, upright, leant over the back of the car.

“Nothing to shoot at,” he announced gloomily. “But I guess there’ll be
another little picnic soon. Ah!”

He raised his hand to his cheek.

“You are hurt?” said Annette quickly.

“Only a scratch.”

The girl sprang to her feet.

“Let me out! Let me out, I say! Stop the car. It is me they’re after.
I’m the one they want. You shall not lose your lives because of me. Let
me go.” She was fumbling with the fastenings of the door.

Julius took her by both arms, and looked at her. She had spoken with no
trace of foreign accent.

“Sit down, kid,” he said gently. “I guess there’s nothing wrong with
your memory. Been fooling them all the time, eh?”

The girl looked at him, nodded, and then suddenly burst into tears.
Julius patted her on the shoulder.

“There, there--just you sit tight. We’re not going to let you quit.”

Through her sobs the girl said indistinctly:

“You’re from home. I can tell by your voice. It makes me home-sick.”

“Sure I’m from home. I’m your cousin--Julius Hersheimmer. I came over to
Europe on purpose to find you--and a pretty dance you’ve led me.”

The car slackened speed. George spoke over his shoulder:

“Cross-roads here, sir. I’m not sure of the way.”

The car slowed down till it hardly moved. As it did so a figure climbed
suddenly over the back, and plunged head first into the midst of them.

“Sorry,” said Tommy, extricating himself.

A mass of confused exclamations greeted him. He replied to them
severally:

“Was in the bushes by the drive. Hung on behind. Couldn’t let you know
before at the pace you were going. It was all I could do to hang on. Now
then, you girls, get out!”

“Get out?”

“Yes. There’s a station just up that road. Train due in three minutes.
You’ll catch it if you hurry.”

“What the devil are you driving at?” demanded Julius. “Do you think you
can fool them by leaving the car?”

“You and I aren’t going to leave the car. Only the girls.”

“You’re crazed, Beresford. Stark staring mad! You can’t let those girls
go off alone. It’ll be the end of it if you do.”

Tommy turned to Tuppence.

“Get out at once, Tuppence. Take her with you, and do just as I say.
No one will do you any harm. You’re safe. Take the train to London. Go
straight to Sir James Peel Edgerton. Mr. Carter lives out of town, but
you’ll be safe with him.”

“Darn you!” cried Julius. “You’re mad. Jane, you stay where you are.”

With a sudden swift movement, Tommy snatched the revolver from Julius’s
hand, and levelled it at him.

“Now will you believe I’m in earnest? Get out, both of you, and do as I
say--or I’ll shoot!”

Tuppence sprang out, dragging the unwilling Jane after her.

“Come on, it’s all right. If Tommy’s sure--he’s sure. Be quick. We’ll
miss the train.”

They started running.

Julius’s pent-up rage burst forth.

“What the hell----”

Tommy interrupted him.

“Dry up! I want a few words with you, Mr. Julius Hersheimmer.”



CHAPTER XXV. JANE’S STORY

HER arm through Jane’s, dragging her along, Tuppence reached the
station. Her quick ears caught the sound of the approaching train.

“Hurry up,” she panted, “or we’ll miss it.”

They arrived on the platform just as the train came to a standstill.
Tuppence opened the door of an empty first-class compartment, and the
two girls sank down breathless on the padded seats.

A man looked in, then passed on to the next carriage. Jane started
nervously. Her eyes dilated with terror. She looked questioningly at
Tuppence.

“Is he one of them, do you think?” she breathed.

Tuppence shook her head.

“No, no. It’s all right.” She took Jane’s hand in hers. “Tommy wouldn’t
have told us to do this unless he was sure we’d be all right.”

“But he doesn’t know them as I do!” The girl shivered. “You can’t
understand. Five years! Five long years! Sometimes I thought I should go
mad.”

“Never mind. It’s all over.”

“Is it?”

The train was moving now, speeding through the night at a gradually
increasing rate. Suddenly Jane Finn started up.

“What was that? I thought I saw a face--looking in through the window.”

“No, there’s nothing. See.” Tuppence went to the window, and lifting the
strap let the pane down.

“You’re sure?”

“Quite sure.”

The other seemed to feel some excuse was necessary:

“I guess I’m acting like a frightened rabbit, but I can’t help it. If
they caught me now they’d----” Her eyes opened wide and staring.

“_Don’t!_” implored Tuppence. “Lie back, and _don’t think_. You can be
quite sure that Tommy wouldn’t have said it was safe if it wasn’t.”

“My cousin didn’t think so. He didn’t want us to do this.”

“No,” said Tuppence, rather embarrassed.

“What are you thinking of?” said Jane sharply.

“Why?”

“Your voice was so--queer!”

“I _was_ thinking of something,” confessed Tuppence. “But I don’t want
to tell you--not now. I may be wrong, but I don’t think so. It’s just
an idea that came into my head a long time ago. Tommy’s got it too--I’m
almost sure he has. But don’t _you_ worry--there’ll be time enough for
that later. And it mayn’t be so at all! Do what I tell you--lie back and
don’t think of anything.”

“I’ll try.” The long lashes drooped over the hazel eyes.

Tuppence, for her part, sat bolt upright--much in the attitude of a
watchful terrier on guard. In spite of herself she was nervous. Her eyes
flashed continually from one window to the other. She noted the exact
position of the communication cord. What it was that she feared, she
would have been hard put to it to say. But in her own mind she was
far from feeling the confidence displayed in her words. Not that she
disbelieved in Tommy, but occasionally she was shaken with doubts as to
whether anyone so simple and honest as he was could ever be a match for
the fiendish subtlety of the arch-criminal.

If they once reached Sir James Peel Edgerton in safety, all would be
well. But would they reach him? Would not the silent forces of Mr. Brown
already be assembling against them? Even that last picture of Tommy,
revolver in hand, failed to comfort her. By now he might be overpowered,
borne down by sheer force of numbers.... Tuppence mapped out her plan of
campaign.

As the train at length drew slowly into Charing Cross, Jane Finn sat up
with a start.

“Have we arrived? I never thought we should!”

“Oh, I thought we’d get to London all right. If there’s going to be any
fun, now is when it will begin. Quick, get out. We’ll nip into a taxi.”

In another minute they were passing the barrier, had paid the necessary
fares, and were stepping into a taxi.

“King’s Cross,” directed Tuppence. Then she gave a jump. A man looked in
at the window, just as they started. She was almost certain it was the
same man who had got into the carriage next to them. She had a horrible
feeling of being slowly hemmed in on every side.

“You see,” she explained to Jane, “if they think we’re going to Sir
James, this will put them off the scent. Now they’ll imagine we’re going
to Mr. Carter. His country place is north of London somewhere.”

Crossing Holborn there was a block, and the taxi was held up. This was
what Tuppence had been waiting for.

“Quick,” she whispered. “Open the right-hand door!”

The two girls stepped out into the traffic. Two minutes later they were
seated in another taxi and were retracing their steps, this time direct
to Carlton House Terrace.

“There,” said Tuppence, with great satisfaction, “this ought to do them.
I can’t help thinking that I’m really rather clever! How that other taxi
man will swear! But I took his number, and I’ll send him a postal order
to-morrow, so that he won’t lose by it if he happens to be genuine.
What’s this thing swerving----Oh!”

There was a grinding noise and a bump. Another taxi had collided with
them.

In a flash Tuppence was out on the pavement. A policeman was
approaching. Before he arrived Tuppence had handed the driver five
shillings, and she and Jane had merged themselves in the crowd.

“It’s only a step or two now,” said Tuppence breathlessly. The accident
had taken place in Trafalgar Square.

“Do you think the collision was an accident, or done deliberately?”

“I don’t know. It might have been either.”

Hand-in-hand, the two girls hurried along.

“It may be my fancy,” said Tuppence suddenly, “but I feel as though
there was some one behind us.”

“Hurry!” murmured the other. “Oh, hurry!”

They were now at the corner of Carlton House Terrace, and their spirits
lightened. Suddenly a large and apparently intoxicated man barred their
way.

“Good evening, ladies,” he hiccupped. “Whither away so fast?”

“Let us pass, please,” said Tuppence imperiously.

“Just a word with your pretty friend here.” He stretched out an unsteady
hand, and clutched Jane by the shoulder. Tuppence heard other footsteps
behind. She did not pause to ascertain whether they were friends or
foes. Lowering her head, she repeated a manœuvre of childish days,
and butted their aggressor full in the capacious middle. The success of
these unsportsmanlike tactics was immediate. The man sat down abruptly
on the pavement. Tuppence and Jane took to their heels. The house they
sought was some way down. Other footsteps echoed behind them. Their
breath was coming in choking gasps as they reached Sir James’s door.
Tuppence seized the bell and Jane the knocker.

The man who had stopped them reached the foot of the steps. For a moment
he hesitated, and as he did so the door opened. They fell into the hall
together. Sir James came forward from the library door.

“Hullo! What’s this?”

He stepped forward, and put his arm round Jane as she swayed
uncertainly. He half carried her into the library, and laid her on the
leather couch. From a tantalus on the table he poured out a few drops of
brandy, and forced her to drink them. With a sigh she sat up, her eyes
still wild and frightened.

“It’s all right. Don’t be afraid, my child. You’re quite safe.”

Her breath came more normally, and the colour was returning to her
cheeks. Sir James looked at Tuppence quizzically.

“So you’re not dead, Miss Tuppence, any more than that Tommy boy of
yours was!”

“The Young Adventurers take a lot of killing,” boasted Tuppence.

“So it seems,” said Sir James dryly. “Am I right in thinking that the
joint venture has ended in success, and that this”--he turned to the
girl on the couch--“is Miss Jane Finn?”

Jane sat up.

“Yes,” she said quietly, “I am Jane Finn. I have a lot to tell you.”

“When you are stronger----”

“No--now!” Her voice rose a little. “I shall feel safer when I have told
everything.”

“As you please,” said the lawyer.

He sat down in one of the big arm-chairs facing the couch. In a low
voice Jane began her story.

“I came over on the _Lusitania_ to take up a post in Paris. I was
fearfully keen about the war, and just dying to help somehow or other. I
had been studying French, and my teacher said they were wanting help in
a hospital in Paris, so I wrote and offered my services, and they were
accepted. I hadn’t got any folk of my own, so it made it easy to arrange
things.

“When the _Lusitania_ was torpedoed, a man came up to me. I’d noticed
him more than once--and I’d figured it out in my own mind that he
was afraid of somebody or something. He asked me if I was a patriotic
American, and told me he was carrying papers which were just life or
death to the Allies. He asked me to take charge of them. I was to watch
for an advertisement in the _Times_. If it didn’t appear, I was to take
them to the American Ambassador.

“Most of what followed seems like a nightmare still. I see it in my
dreams sometimes.... I’ll hurry over that part. Mr. Danvers had told me
to watch out. He might have been shadowed from New York, but he didn’t
think so. At first I had no suspicions, but on the boat to Holyhead I
began to get uneasy. There was one woman who had been very keen to look
after me, and chum up with me generally--a Mrs. Vandemeyer. At first I’d
been only grateful to her for being so kind to me; but all the time I
felt there was something about her I didn’t like, and on the Irish
boat I saw her talking to some queer-looking men, and from the way they
looked I saw that they were talking about me. I remembered that she’d
been quite near me on the _Lusitania_ when Mr. Danvers gave me the
packet, and before that she’d tried to talk to him once or twice. I
began to get scared, but I didn’t quite see what to do.

“I had a wild idea of stopping at Holyhead, and not going on to London
that day, but I soon saw that that would be plumb foolishness. The only
thing was to act as though I’d noticed nothing, and hope for the best.
I couldn’t see how they could get me if I was on my guard. One thing
I’d done already as a precaution--ripped open the oilskin packet and
substituted blank paper, and then sewn it up again. So, if anyone did
manage to rob me of it, it wouldn’t matter.

“What to do with the real thing worried me no end. Finally I opened it
out flat--there were only two sheets--and laid it between two of the
advertisement pages of a magazine. I stuck the two pages together
round the edge with some gum off an envelope. I carried the magazine
carelessly stuffed into the pocket of my ulster.

“At Holyhead I tried to get into a carriage with people that looked all
right, but in a queer way there seemed always to be a crowd round me
shoving and pushing me just the way I didn’t want to go. There was
something uncanny and frightening about it. In the end I found myself in
a carriage with Mrs. Vandemeyer after all. I went out into the corridor,
but all the other carriages were full, so I had to go back and sit down.
I consoled myself with the thought that there were other people in the
carriage--there was quite a nice-looking man and his wife sitting just
opposite. So I felt almost happy about it until just outside London. I
had leaned back and closed my eyes. I guess they thought I was asleep,
but my eyes weren’t quite shut, and suddenly I saw the nice-looking man
get something out of his bag and hand it to Mrs. Vandemeyer, and as he
did so he _winked_....

“I can’t tell you how that wink sort of froze me through and through. My
only thought was to get out in the corridor as quick as ever I could. I
got up, trying to look natural and easy. Perhaps they saw something--I
don’t know--but suddenly Mrs. Vandemeyer said ‘Now,’ and flung something
over my nose and mouth as I tried to scream. At the same moment I felt a
terrific blow on the back of my head....”

She shuddered. Sir James murmured something sympathetically. In a minute
she resumed:

“I don’t know how long it was before I came back to consciousness. I
felt very ill and sick. I was lying on a dirty bed. There was a
screen round it, but I could hear two people talking in the room. Mrs.
Vandemeyer was one of them. I tried to listen, but at first I couldn’t
take much in. When at last I did begin to grasp what was going on--I was
just terrified! I wonder I didn’t scream right out there and then.

“They hadn’t found the papers. They’d got the oilskin packet with the
blanks, and they were just mad! They didn’t know whether _I_‘d changed
the papers, or whether Danvers had been carrying a dummy message,
while the real one was sent another way. They spoke of”--she closed her
eyes--“torturing me to find out!

“I’d never known what fear--really sickening fear--was before! Once
they came to look at me. I shut my eyes and pretended to be still
unconscious, but I was afraid they’d hear the beating of my heart.
However, they went away again. I began thinking madly. What could I do?
I knew I wouldn’t be able to stand up against torture very long.

“Suddenly something put the thought of loss of memory into my head. The
subject had always interested me, and I’d read an awful lot about it.
I had the whole thing at my finger-tips. If only I could succeed in
carrying the bluff through, it might save me. I said a prayer, and drew
a long breath. Then I opened my eyes and started babbling in _French!_

“Mrs. Vandemeyer came round the screen at once. Her face was so wicked I
nearly died, but I smiled up at her doubtfully, and asked her in French
where I was.

“It puzzled her, I could see. She called the man she had been talking
to. He stood by the screen with his face in shadow. He spoke to me in
French. His voice was very ordinary and quiet, but somehow, I don’t know
why, he scared me worse than the woman. I felt he’d seen right through
me, but I went on playing my part. I asked again where I was, and
then went on that there was something I _must_ remember--_must_
remember--only for the moment it was all gone. I worked myself up to
be more and more distressed. He asked me my name. I said I didn’t
know--that I couldn’t remember anything at all.

“Suddenly he caught my wrist, and began twisting it. The pain was awful.
I screamed. He went on. I screamed and screamed, but I managed to shriek
out things in French. I don’t know how long I could have gone on, but
luckily I fainted. The last thing I heard was his voice saying: ‘That’s
not bluff! Anyway, a kid of her age wouldn’t know enough.’ I guess he
forgot American girls are older for their age than English ones, and
take more interest in scientific subjects.

“When I came to, Mrs. Vandemeyer was sweet as honey to me. She’d had her
orders, I guess. She spoke to me in French--told me I’d had a shock
and been very ill. I should be better soon. I pretended to be rather
dazed--murmured something about the ‘doctor’ having hurt my wrist. She
looked relieved when I said that.

“By and by she went out of the room altogether. I was suspicious still,
and lay quite quiet for some time. In the end, however, I got up and
walked round the room, examining it. I thought that even if anyone
_was_ watching me from somewhere, it would seem natural enough under
the circumstances. It was a squalid, dirty place. There were no windows,
which seemed queer. I guessed the door would be locked, but I didn’t
try it. There were some battered old pictures on the walls, representing
scenes from _Faust_.”

Jane’s two listeners gave a simultaneous “Ah!” The girl nodded.

“Yes--it was the place in Soho where Mr. Beresford was imprisoned. Of
course, at the time I didn’t even know if I was in London. One thing was
worrying me dreadfully, but my heart gave a great throb of relief when
I saw my ulster lying carelessly over the back of a chair. _And the
magazine was still rolled up in the pocket!_

“If only I could be certain that I was not being overlooked! I looked
carefully round the walls. There didn’t seem to be a peep-hole of any
kind--nevertheless I felt kind of sure there must be. All of a sudden I
sat down on the edge of the table, and put my face in my hands, sobbing
out a ‘Mon Dieu! Mon Dieu!’ I’ve got very sharp ears. I distinctly heard
the rustle of a dress, and slight creak. That was enough for me. I was
being watched!

“I lay down on the bed again, and by and by Mrs. Vandemeyer brought me
some supper. She was still sweet as they make them. I guess she’d been
told to win my confidence. Presently she produced the oilskin packet,
and asked me if I recognized it, watching me like a lynx all the time.

“I took it and turned it over in a puzzled sort of way. Then I shook my
head. I said that I felt I _ought_ to remember something about it, that
it was just as though it was all coming back, and then, before I could
get hold of it, it went again. Then she told me that I was her niece,
and that I was to call her ‘Aunt Rita.’ I did obediently, and she told
me not to worry--my memory would soon come back.

“That was an awful night. I’d made my plan whilst I was waiting for her.
The papers were safe so far, but I couldn’t take the risk of leaving
them there any longer. They might throw that magazine away any minute.
I lay awake waiting until I judged it must be about two o’clock in the
morning. Then I got up as softly as I could, and felt in the dark along
the left-hand wall. Very gently, I unhooked one of the pictures from its
nail--Marguerite with her casket of jewels. I crept over to my coat and
took out the magazine, and an odd envelope or two that I had shoved in.
Then I went to the washstand, and damped the brown paper at the back
of the picture all round. Presently I was able to pull it away. I had
already torn out the two stuck-together pages from the magazine, and now
I slipped them with their precious enclosure between the picture and its
brown paper backing. A little gum from the envelopes helped me to
stick the latter up again. No one would dream the picture had ever been
tampered with. I rehung it on the wall, put the magazine back in my
coat pocket, and crept back to bed. I was pleased with my hiding-place.
They’d never think of pulling to pieces one of their own pictures. I
hoped that they’d come to the conclusion that Danvers had been carrying
a dummy all along, and that, in the end, they’d let me go.

“As a matter of fact, I guess that’s what they did think at first, and,
in a way, it was dangerous for me. I learnt afterwards that they nearly
did away with me then and there--there was never much chance of their
‘letting me go’--but the first man, who was the boss, preferred to keep
me alive on the chance of my having hidden them, and being able to tell
where if I recovered my memory. They watched me constantly for weeks.
Sometimes they’d ask me questions by the hour--I guess there was nothing
they didn’t know about the third degree!--but somehow I managed to hold
my own. The strain of it was awful, though....

“They took me back to Ireland, and over every step of the journey again,
in case I’d hidden it somewhere _en route_. Mrs. Vandemeyer and another
woman never left me for a moment. They spoke of me as a young relative
of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s whose mind was affected by the shock of the
_Lusitania_. There was no one I could appeal to for help without
giving myself away to _them_, and if I risked it and failed--and Mrs.
Vandemeyer looked so rich, and so beautifully dressed, that I felt
convinced they’d take her word against mine, and think it was part of my
mental trouble to think myself ‘persecuted’--I felt that the horrors in
store for me would be too awful once they knew I’d been only shamming.”

Sir James nodded comprehendingly.

“Mrs. Vandemeyer was a woman of great personality. With that and her
social position she would have had little difficulty in imposing her
point of view in preference to yours. Your sensational accusations
against her would not easily have found credence.”

“That’s what I thought. It ended in my being sent to a sanatorium at
Bournemouth. I couldn’t make up my mind at first whether it was a sham
affair or genuine. A hospital nurse had charge of me. I was a special
patient. She seemed so nice and normal that at last I determined to
confide in her. A merciful providence just saved me in time from falling
into the trap. My door happened to be ajar, and I heard her talking to
some one in the passage. _She was one of them!_ They still fancied it
might be a bluff on my part, and she was put in charge of me to make
sure! After that, my nerve went completely. I dared trust nobody.

“I think I almost hypnotized myself. After a while, I almost forgot
that I was really Jane Finn. I was so bent on playing the part of Janet
Vandemeyer that my nerves began to play me tricks. I became really
ill--for months I sank into a sort of stupor. I felt sure I should
die soon, and that nothing really mattered. A sane person shut up in a
lunatic asylum often ends by becoming insane, they say. I guess I was
like that. Playing my part had become second nature to me. I wasn’t even
unhappy in the end--just apathetic. Nothing seemed to matter. And the
years went on.

“And then suddenly things seemed to change. Mrs. Vandemeyer came down
from London. She and the doctor asked me questions, experimented with
various treatments. There was some talk of sending me to a specialist in
Paris. In the end, they did not dare risk it. I overheard something that
seemed to show that other people--friends--were looking for me. I
learnt later that the nurse who had looked after me went to Paris,
and consulted a specialist, representing herself to be me. He put her
through some searching tests, and exposed her loss of memory to be
fraudulent; but she had taken a note of his methods and reproduced
them on me. I dare say I couldn’t have deceived the specialist for a
minute--a man who has made a lifelong study of a thing is unique--but
I managed once again to hold my own with them. The fact that I’d not
thought of myself as Jane Finn for so long made it easier.

“One night I was whisked off to London at a moment’s notice. They took
me back to the house in Soho. Once I got away from the sanatorium I felt
different--as though something in me that had been buried for a long
time was waking up again.

“They sent me in to wait on Mr. Beresford. (Of course I didn’t know
his name then.) I was suspicious--I thought it was another trap. But he
looked so honest, I could hardly believe it. However, I was careful in
all I said, for I knew we could be overheard. There’s a small hole, high
up in the wall.

“But on the Sunday afternoon a message was brought to the house. They
were all very disturbed. Without their knowing, I listened. Word had
come that he was to be killed. I needn’t tell the next part, because
you know it. I thought I’d have time to rush up and get the papers from
their hiding-place, but I was caught. So I screamed out that he was
escaping, and I said I wanted to go back to Marguerite. I shouted the
name three times very loud. I knew the others would think I meant
Mrs. Vandemeyer, but I hoped it might make Mr. Beresford think of the
picture. He’d unhooked one the first day--that’s what made me hesitate
to trust him.”

She paused.

“Then the papers,” said Sir James slowly, “are still at the back of the
picture in that room.”

“Yes.” The girl had sunk back on the sofa exhausted with the strain of
the long story.

Sir James rose to his feet. He looked at his watch.

“Come,” he said, “we must go at once.”

“To-night?” queried Tuppence, surprised.

“To-morrow may be too late,” said Sir James gravely. “Besides, by
going to-night we have the chance of capturing that great man and
super-criminal--Mr. Brown!”

There was dead silence, and Sir James continued:

“You have been followed here--not a doubt of it. When we leave the house
we shall be followed again, but not molested, _for it is Mr. Brown’s
plan that we are to lead him_. But the Soho house is under police
supervision night and day. There are several men watching it. When we
enter that house, Mr. Brown will not draw back--he will risk all, on the
chance of obtaining the spark to fire his mine. And he fancies the risk
not great--since he will enter in the guise of a friend!”

Tuppence flushed, then opened her mouth impulsively.

“But there’s something you don’t know--that we haven’t told you.” Her
eyes dwelt on Jane in perplexity.

“What is that?” asked the other sharply. “No hesitations, Miss Tuppence.
We need to be sure of our going.”

But Tuppence, for once, seemed tongue-tied.

“It’s so difficult--you see, if I’m wrong--oh, it would be dreadful.”
 She made a grimace at the unconscious Jane. “Never forgive me,” she
observed cryptically.

“You want me to help you out, eh?”

“Yes, please. _You_ know who Mr. Brown is, don’t you?”

“Yes,” said Sir James gravely. “At last I do.”

“At last?” queried Tuppence doubtfully. “Oh, but I thought----” She
paused.

“You thought correctly, Miss Tuppence. I have been morally certain of
his identity for some time--ever since the night of Mrs. Vandemeyer’s
mysterious death.”

“Ah!” breathed Tuppence.

“For there we are up against the logic of facts. There are only two
solutions. Either the chloral was administered by her own hand, which
theory I reject utterly, or else----”

“Yes?”

“Or else it was administered in the brandy you gave her. Only three
people touched that brandy--you, Miss Tuppence, I myself, and one
other--Mr. Julius Hersheimmer!”

Jane Finn stirred and sat up, regarding the speaker with wide astonished
eyes.

“At first, the thing seemed utterly impossible. Mr. Hersheimmer, as the
son of a prominent millionaire, was a well-known figure in America. It
seemed utterly impossible that he and Mr. Brown could be one and the
same. But you cannot escape from the logic of facts. Since the thing
was so--it must be accepted. Remember Mrs. Vandemeyer’s sudden and
inexplicable agitation. Another proof, if proof was needed.

“I took an early opportunity of giving you a hint. From some words of
Mr. Hersheimmer’s at Manchester, I gathered that you had understood and
acted on that hint. Then I set to work to prove the impossible possible.
Mr. Beresford rang me up and told me, what I had already suspected,
that the photograph of Miss Jane Finn had never really been out of Mr.
Hersheimmer’s possession----”

But the girl interrupted. Springing to her feet, she cried out angrily:

“What do you mean? What are you trying to suggest? That Mr. Brown is
_Julius?_ Julius--my own cousin!”

“No, Miss Finn,” said Sir James unexpectedly. “Not your cousin. The man
who calls himself Julius Hersheimmer is no relation to you whatsoever.”



CHAPTER XXVI. MR. BROWN

SIR James’s words came like a bomb-shell. Both girls looked equally
puzzled. The lawyer went across to his desk, and returned with a small
newspaper cutting, which he handed to Jane. Tuppence read it over
her shoulder. Mr. Carter would have recognized it. It referred to the
mysterious man found dead in New York.

“As I was saying to Miss Tuppence,” resumed the lawyer, “I set to work
to prove the impossible possible. The great stumbling-block was the
undeniable fact that Julius Hersheimmer was not an assumed name. When I
came across this paragraph my problem was solved. Julius Hersheimmer set
out to discover what had become of his cousin. He went out West, where
he obtained news of her and her photograph to aid him in his search. On
the eve of his departure from New York he was set upon and murdered. His
body was dressed in shabby clothes, and the face disfigured to prevent
identification. Mr. Brown took his place. He sailed immediately for
England. None of the real Hersheimmer’s friends or intimates saw him
before he sailed--though indeed it would hardly have mattered if they
had, the impersonation was so perfect. Since then he had been hand and
glove with those sworn to hunt him down. Every secret of theirs has been
known to him. Only once did he come near disaster. Mrs. Vandemeyer knew
his secret. It was no part of his plan that that huge bribe should ever
be offered to her. But for Miss Tuppence’s fortunate change of plan, she
would have been far away from the flat when we arrived there. Exposure
stared him in the face. He took a desperate step, trusting in his
assumed character to avert suspicion. He nearly succeeded--but not
quite.”

“I can’t believe it,” murmured Jane. “He seemed so splendid.”

“The real Julius Hersheimmer _was_ a splendid fellow! And Mr. Brown is
a consummate actor. But ask Miss Tuppence if she also has not had her
suspicions.”

Jane turned mutely to Tuppence. The latter nodded.

“I didn’t want to say it, Jane--I knew it would hurt you. And, after
all, I couldn’t be sure. I still don’t understand why, if he’s Mr.
Brown, he rescued us.”

“Was it Julius Hersheimmer who helped you to escape?”

Tuppence recounted to Sir James the exciting events of the evening,
ending up: “But I can’t see _why!_”

“Can’t you? I can. So can young Beresford, by his actions. As a last
hope Jane Finn was to be allowed to escape--and the escape must be
managed so that she harbours no suspicions of its being a put-up job.
They’re not averse to young Beresford’s being in the neighbourhood, and,
if necessary, communicating with you. They’ll take care to get him out
of the way at the right minute. Then Julius Hersheimmer dashes up and
rescues you in true melodramatic style. Bullets fly--but don’t hit
anybody. What would have happened next? You would have driven straight
to the house in Soho and secured the document which Miss Finn would
probably have entrusted to her cousin’s keeping. Or, if he conducted the
search, he would have pretended to find the hiding-place already rifled.
He would have had a dozen ways of dealing with the situation, but the
result would have been the same. And I rather fancy some accident would
have happened to both of you. You see, you know rather an inconvenient
amount. That’s a rough outline. I admit I was caught napping; but
somebody else wasn’t.”

“Tommy,” said Tuppence softly.

“Yes. Evidently when the right moment came to get rid of him--he was too
sharp for them. All the same, I’m not too easy in my mind about him.”

“Why?”

“Because Julius Hersheimmer is Mr. Brown,” said Sir James dryly. “And it
takes more than one man and a revolver to hold up Mr. Brown....”

Tuppence paled a little.

“What can we do?”

“Nothing until we’ve been to the house in Soho. If Beresford has still
got the upper hand, there’s nothing to fear. If otherwise, our enemy
will come to find us, and he will not find us unprepared!” From a drawer
in the desk, he took a service revolver, and placed it in his coat
pocket.

“Now we’re ready. I know better than even to suggest going without you,
Miss Tuppence----”

“I should think so indeed!”

“But I do suggest that Miss Finn should remain here. She will be
perfectly safe, and I am afraid she is absolutely worn out with all she
has been through.”

But to Tuppence’s surprise Jane shook her head.

“No. I guess I’m going too. Those papers were my trust. I must go
through with this business to the end. I’m heaps better now anyway.”

Sir James’s car was ordered round. During the short drive Tuppence’s
heart beat tumultuously. In spite of momentary qualms of uneasiness
respecting Tommy, she could not but feel exultation. They were going to
win!

The car drew up at the corner of the square and they got out. Sir James
went up to a plain-clothes man who was on duty with several others, and
spoke to him. Then he rejoined the girls.

“No one has gone into the house so far. It is being watched at the back
as well, so they are quite sure of that. Anyone who attempts to enter
after we have done so will be arrested immediately. Shall we go in?”

A policeman produced a key. They all knew Sir James well. They had also
had orders respecting Tuppence. Only the third member of the party was
unknown to them. The three entered the house, pulling the door to behind
them. Slowly they mounted the rickety stairs. At the top was the ragged
curtain hiding the recess where Tommy had hidden that day. Tuppence had
heard the story from Jane in her character of “Annette.” She looked at
the tattered velvet with interest. Even now she could almost swear it
moved--as though _some one_ was behind it. So strong was the illusion
that she almost fancied she could make out the outline of a form....
Supposing Mr. Brown--Julius--was there waiting....

Impossible of course! Yet she almost went back to put the curtain aside
and make sure....

Now they were entering the prison room. No place for anyone to hide
here, thought Tuppence, with a sigh of relief, then chided herself
indignantly. She must not give way to this foolish fancying--this
curious insistent feeling that _Mr. Brown was in the house_.... Hark!
what was that? A stealthy footstep on the stairs? There _was_ some one
in the house! Absurd! She was becoming hysterical.

Jane had gone straight to the picture of Marguerite. She unhooked it
with a steady hand. The dust lay thick upon it, and festoons of cobwebs
lay between it and the wall. Sir James handed her a pocket-knife, and
she ripped away the brown paper from the back.... The advertisement
page of a magazine fell out. Jane picked it up. Holding apart the frayed
inner edges she extracted two thin sheets covered with writing!

No dummy this time! The real thing!

“We’ve got it,” said Tuppence. “At last....”

The moment was almost breathless in its emotion. Forgotten the faint
creakings, the imagined noises of a minute ago. None of them had eyes
for anything but what Jane held in her hand.

Sir James took it, and scrutinized it attentively.

“Yes,” he said quietly, “this is the ill-fated draft treaty!”

“We’ve succeeded,” said Tuppence. There was awe and an almost wondering
unbelief in her voice.

Sir James echoed her words as he folded the paper carefully and put it
away in his pocket-book, then he looked curiously round the dingy room.

“It was here that our young friend was confined for so long, was
it not?” he said. “A truly sinister room. You notice the absence of
windows, and the thickness of the close-fitting door. Whatever took
place here would never be heard by the outside world.”

Tuppence shivered. His words woke a vague alarm in her. What if there
_was_ some one concealed in the house? Some one who might bar that door
on them, and leave them to die like rats in a trap? Then she realized
the absurdity of her thought. The house was surrounded by police who,
if they failed to reappear, would not hesitate to break in and make a
thorough search. She smiled at her own foolishness--then looked up with
a start to find Sir James watching her. He gave her an emphatic little
nod.

“Quite right, Miss Tuppence. You scent danger. So do I. So does Miss
Finn.”

“Yes,” admitted Jane. “It’s absurd--but I can’t help it.”

Sir James nodded again.

“You feel--as we all feel-- _the presence of Mr. Bown_. Yes”--as
Tuppence made a movement--“not a doubt of it-- _Mr. Brown is here_....”

“In this house?”

“In this room.... You don’t understand? _I am Mr. Brown_....”

Stupefied, unbelieving, they stared at him. The very lines of his face
had changed. It was a different man who stood before them. He smiled a
slow cruel smile.

“Neither of you will leave this room alive! You said just now we had
succeeded. _I_ have succeeded! The draft treaty is mine.” His smile grew
wider as he looked at Tuppence. “Shall I tell you how it will be? Sooner
or later the police will break in, and they will find three victims of
Mr. Brown--three, not two, you understand, but fortunately the third
will not be dead, only wounded, and will be able to describe the attack
with a wealth of detail! The treaty? It is in the hands of Mr. Brown. So
no one will think of searching the pockets of Sir James Peel Edgerton!”

He turned to Jane.

“You outwitted me. I make my acknowledgments. But you will not do it
again.”

There was a faint sound behind him, but, intoxicated with success, he
did not turn his head.

He slipped his hand into his pocket.

“Checkmate to the Young Adventurers,” he said, and slowly raised the big
automatic.

But, even as he did so, he felt himself seized from behind in a grip of
iron. The revolver was wrenched from his hand, and the voice of Julius
Hersheimmer said drawlingly:

“I guess you’re caught redhanded with the goods upon you.”

The blood rushed to the K.C.’s face, but his self-control was
marvellous, as he looked from one to the other of his two captors. He
looked longest at Tommy.

“You,” he said beneath his breath. “_You!_ I might have known.”

Seeing that he was disposed to offer no resistance, their grip
slackened. Quick as a flash his left hand, the hand which bore the big
signet ring, was raised to his lips....

“‘_Ave, Cæsar! te morituri salutant_,’” he said, still looking at
Tommy.

Then his face changed, and with a long convulsive shudder he fell
forward in a crumpled heap, whilst an odour of bitter almonds filled the
air.



CHAPTER XXVII. A SUPPER PARTY AT THE _SAVOY_

THE supper party given by Mr. Julius Hersheimmer to a few friends on the
evening of the 30th will long be remembered in catering circles. It took
place in a private room, and Mr. Hersheimmer’s orders were brief and
forcible. He gave carte blanche--and when a millionaire gives carte
blanche he usually gets it!

Every delicacy out of season was duly provided. Waiters carried bottles
of ancient and royal vintage with loving care. The floral decorations
defied the seasons, and fruits of the earth as far apart as May and
November found themselves miraculously side by side. The list of guests
was small and select. The American Ambassador, Mr. Carter, who had taken
the liberty, he said, of bringing an old friend, Sir William Beresford,
with him, Archdeacon Cowley, Dr. Hall, those two youthful adventurers,
Miss Prudence Cowley and Mr. Thomas Beresford, and last, but not least,
as guest of honour, Miss Jane Finn.

Julius had spared no pains to make Jane’s appearance a success. A
mysterious knock had brought Tuppence to the door of the apartment she
was sharing with the American girl. It was Julius. In his hand he held a
cheque.

“Say, Tuppence,” he began, “will you do me a good turn? Take this, and
get Jane regularly togged up for this evening. You’re all coming to
supper with me at the _Savoy_. See? Spare no expense. You get me?”

“Sure thing,” mimicked Tuppence. “We shall enjoy ourselves. It will be a
pleasure dressing Jane. She’s the loveliest thing I’ve ever seen.”

“That’s so,” agreed Mr. Hersheimmer fervently.

His fervour brought a momentary twinkle to Tuppence’s eye.

“By the way, Julius,” she remarked demurely, “I--haven’t given you my
answer yet.”

“Answer?” said Julius. His face paled.

“You know--when you asked me to--marry you,” faltered Tuppence, her
eyes downcast in the true manner of the early Victorian heroine, “and
wouldn’t take no for an answer. I’ve thought it well over----”

“Yes?” said Julius. The perspiration stood on his forehead.

Tuppence relented suddenly.

“You great idiot!” she said. “What on earth induced you to do it? I
could see at the time you didn’t care a twopenny dip for me!”

“Not at all. I had--and still have--the highest sentiments of esteem and
respect--and admiration for you----”

“H’m!” said Tuppence. “Those are the kind of sentiments that very soon
go to the wall when the other sentiment comes along! Don’t they, old
thing?”

“I don’t know what you mean,” said Julius stiffly, but a large and
burning blush overspread his countenance.

“Shucks!” retorted Tuppence. She laughed, and closed the door, reopening
it to add with dignity: “Morally, I shall always consider I have been
jilted!”

“What was it?” asked Jane as Tuppence rejoined her.

“Julius.”

“What did he want?”

“Really, I think, he wanted to see you, but I wasn’t going to let him.
Not until to-night, when you’re going to burst upon every one like King
Solomon in his glory! Come on! _We’re going to shop!_”

To most people the 29th, the much-heralded “Labour Day,” had passed much
as any other day. Speeches were made in the Park and Trafalgar Square.
Straggling processions, singing the _Red Flag_, wandered through the
streets in a more or less aimless manner. Newspapers which had hinted at
a general strike, and the inauguration of a reign of terror, were forced
to hide their diminished heads. The bolder and more astute among
them sought to prove that peace had been effected by following their
counsels. In the Sunday papers a brief notice of the sudden death of Sir
James Peel Edgerton, the famous K.C., had appeared. Monday’s paper
dealt appreciatively with the dead man’s career. The exact manner of his
sudden death was never made public.

Tommy had been right in his forecast of the situation. It had been a
one-man show. Deprived of their chief, the organization fell to pieces.
Kramenin had made a precipitate return to Russia, leaving England early
on Sunday morning. The gang had fled from Astley Priors in a panic,
leaving behind, in their haste, various damaging documents which
compromised them hopelessly. With these proofs of conspiracy in their
hands, aided further by a small brown diary taken from the pocket of the
dead man which had contained a full and damning résumé of the whole
plot, the Government had called an eleventh-hour conference. The Labour
leaders were forced to recognize that they had been used as a cat’s
paw. Certain concessions were made by the Government, and were eagerly
accepted. It was to be Peace, not War!

But the Cabinet knew by how narrow a margin they had escaped utter
disaster. And burnt in on Mr. Carter’s brain was the strange scene which
had taken place in the house in Soho the night before.

He had entered the squalid room to find that great man, the friend of
a lifetime, dead--betrayed out of his own mouth. From the dead man’s
pocket-book he had retrieved the ill-omened draft treaty, and then
and there, in the presence of the other three, it had been reduced to
ashes.... England was saved!

And now, on the evening of the 30th, in a private room at the _Savoy_,
Mr. Julius P. Hersheimmer was receiving his guests.

Mr. Carter was the first to arrive. With him was a choleric-looking old
gentleman, at sight of whom Tommy flushed up to the roots of his hair.
He came forward.

“Ha!” said the old gentleman, surveying him apoplectically. “So you’re
my nephew, are you? Not much to look at--but you’ve done good work, it
seems. Your mother must have brought you up well after all. Shall we
let bygones be bygones, eh? You’re my heir, you know; and in future I
propose to make you an allowance--and you can look upon Chalmers Park as
your home.”

“Thank you, sir, it’s awfully decent of you.”

“Where’s this young lady I’ve been hearing such a lot about?”

Tommy introduced Tuppence.

“Ha!” said Sir William, eyeing her. “Girls aren’t what they used to be
in my young days.”

“Yes, they are,” said Tuppence. “Their clothes are different, perhaps,
but they themselves are just the same.”

“Well, perhaps you’re right. Minxes then--minxes now!”

“That’s it,” said Tuppence. “I’m a frightful minx myself.”

“I believe you,” said the old gentleman, chuckling, and pinched her ear
in high good-humour. Most young women were terrified of the “old bear,”
 as they termed him. Tuppence’s pertness delighted the old misogynist.

Then came the timid archdeacon, a little bewildered by the company in
which he found himself, glad that his daughter was considered to have
distinguished herself, but unable to help glancing at her from time
to time with nervous apprehension. But Tuppence behaved admirably. She
forbore to cross her legs, set a guard upon her tongue, and steadfastly
refused to smoke.

Dr. Hall came next, and he was followed by the American Ambassador.

“We might as well sit down,” said Julius, when he had introduced all his
guests to each other. “Tuppence, will you----”

He indicated the place of honour with a wave of his hand.

But Tuppence shook her head.

“No--that’s Jane’s place! When one thinks of how she’s held out all
these years, she ought to be made the queen of the feast to-night.”

Julius flung her a grateful glance, and Jane came forward shyly to the
allotted seat. Beautiful as she had seemed before, it was as nothing to
the loveliness that now went fully adorned. Tuppence had performed her
part faithfully. The model gown supplied by a famous dressmaker had been
entitled “A tiger lily.” It was all golds and reds and browns, and out
of it rose the pure column of the girl’s white throat, and the bronze
masses of hair that crowned her lovely head. There was admiration in
every eye, as she took her seat.

Soon the supper party was in full swing, and with one accord Tommy was
called upon for a full and complete explanation.

“You’ve been too darned close about the whole business,” Julius accused
him. “You let on to me that you were off to the Argentine--though I
guess you had your reasons for that. The idea of both you and Tuppence
casting me for the part of Mr. Brown just tickles me to death!”

“The idea was not original to them,” said Mr. Carter gravely. “It was
suggested, and the poison very carefully instilled, by a past-master in
the art. The paragraph in the New York paper suggested the plan to him,
and by means of it he wove a web that nearly enmeshed you fatally.”

“I never liked him,” said Julius. “I felt from the first that there was
something wrong about him, and I always suspected that it was he who
silenced Mrs. Vandemeyer so appositely. But it wasn’t till I heard that
the order for Tommy’s execution came right on the heels of our interview
with him that Sunday that I began to tumble to the fact that he was the
big bug himself.”

“I never suspected it at all,” lamented Tuppence. “I’ve always thought
I was so much cleverer than Tommy--but he’s undoubtedly scored over me
handsomely.”

Julius agreed.

“Tommy’s been the goods this trip! And, instead of sitting there as dumb
as a fish, let him banish his blushes, and tell us all about it.”

“Hear! hear!”

“There’s nothing to tell,” said Tommy, acutely uncomfortable. “I was an
awful mug--right up to the time I found that photograph of Annette, and
realized that she was Jane Finn. Then I remembered how persistently she
had shouted out that word ‘Marguerite’--and I thought of the pictures,
and--well, that’s that. Then of course I went over the whole thing to
see where I’d made an ass of myself.”

“Go on,” said Mr. Carter, as Tommy showed signs of taking refuge in
silence once more.

“That business about Mrs. Vandemeyer had worried me when Julius told me
about it. On the face of it, it seemed that he or Sir James must have
done the trick. But I didn’t know which. Finding that photograph in the
drawer, after that story of how it had been got from him by Inspector
Brown, made me suspect Julius. Then I remembered that it was Sir James
who had discovered the false Jane Finn. In the end, I couldn’t make up
my mind--and just decided to take no chances either way. I left a note
for Julius, in case he was Mr. Brown, saying I was off to the Argentine,
and I dropped Sir James’s letter with the offer of the job by the desk
so that he would see it was a genuine stunt. Then I wrote my letter to
Mr. Carter and rang up Sir James. Taking him into my confidence would
be the best thing either way, so I told him everything except where I
believed the papers to be hidden. The way he helped me to get on the
track of Tuppence and Annette almost disarmed me, but not quite. I kept
my mind open between the two of them. And then I got a bogus note from
Tuppence--and I knew!”

“But how?”

Tommy took the note in question from his pocket and passed it round the
table.

“It’s her handwriting all right, but I knew it wasn’t from her because
of the signature. She’d never spell her name ‘Twopence,’ but anyone
who’d never seen it written might quite easily do so. Julius _had_ seen
it--he showed me a note of hers to him once--but _Sir James hadn’t!_
After that everything was plain sailing. I sent off Albert post-haste to
Mr. Carter. I pretended to go away, but doubled back again. When Julius
came bursting up in his car, I felt it wasn’t part of Mr. Brown’s
plan--and that there would probably be trouble. Unless Sir James was
actually caught in the act, so to speak, I knew Mr. Carter would never
believe it of him on my bare word----”

“I didn’t,” interposed Mr. Carter ruefully.

“That’s why I sent the girls off to Sir James. I was sure they’d fetch
up at the house in Soho sooner or later. I threatened Julius with the
revolver, because I wanted Tuppence to repeat that to Sir James, so that
he wouldn’t worry about us. The moment the girls were out of sight I
told Julius to drive like hell for London, and as we went along I told
him the whole story. We got to the Soho house in plenty of time and met
Mr. Carter outside. After arranging things with him we went in and hid
behind the curtain in the recess. The policemen had orders to say, if
they were asked, that no one had gone into the house. That’s all.”

And Tommy came to an abrupt halt.

There was silence for a moment.

“By the way,” said Julius suddenly, “you’re all wrong about that
photograph of Jane. It _was_ taken from me, but I found it again.”

“Where?” cried Tuppence.

“In that little safe on the wall in Mrs. Vandemeyer’s bedroom.”

“I knew you found something,” said Tuppence reproachfully. “To tell you
the truth, that’s what started me off suspecting you. Why didn’t you
say?”

“I guess I was a mite suspicious too. It had been got away from me once,
and I determined I wouldn’t let on I’d got it until a photographer had
made a dozen copies of it!”

“We all kept back something or other,” said Tuppence thoughtfully. “I
suppose secret service work makes you like that!”

In the pause that ensued, Mr. Carter took from his pocket a small shabby
brown book.

“Beresford has just said that I would not have believed Sir James Peel
Edgerton to be guilty unless, so to speak, he was caught in the act.
That is so. Indeed, not until I read the entries in this little book
could I bring myself fully to credit the amazing truth. This book will
pass into the possession of Scotland Yard, but it will never be publicly
exhibited. Sir James’s long association with the law would make it
undesirable. But to you, who know the truth, I propose to read certain
passages which will throw some light on the extraordinary mentality of
this great man.”

He opened the book, and turned the thin pages.

“... It is madness to keep this book. I know that. It is documentary
evidence against me. But I have never shrunk from taking risks. And I
feel an urgent need for self-expression.... The book will only be taken
from my dead body....

“... From an early age I realized that I had exceptional abilities. Only
a fool underestimates his capabilities. My brain power was greatly above
the average. I know that I was born to succeed. My appearance was
the only thing against me. I was quiet and insignificant--utterly
nondescript....

“... When I was a boy I heard a famous murder trial. I was deeply
impressed by the power and eloquence of the counsel for the defence.
For the first time I entertained the idea of taking my talents to that
particular market.... Then I studied the criminal in the dock.... The
man was a fool--he had been incredibly, unbelievably stupid. Even
the eloquence of his counsel was hardly likely to save him. I felt
an immeasurable contempt for him.... Then it occurred to me that the
criminal standard was a low one. It was the wastrels, the failures, the
general riff-raff of civilization who drifted into crime....
Strange that men of brains had never realized its extraordinary
opportunities.... I played with the idea.... What a magnificent
field--what unlimited possibilities! It made my brain reel....

“... I read standard works on crime and criminals. They all confirmed my
opinion. Degeneracy, disease--never the deliberate embracing of a career
by a far-seeing man. Then I considered. Supposing my utmost ambitions
were realized--that I was called to the bar, and rose to the height of
my profession? That I entered politics--say, even, that I became Prime
Minister of England? What then? Was that power? Hampered at every turn
by my colleagues, fettered by the democratic system of which I should
be the mere figurehead! No--the power I dreamed of was absolute! An
autocrat! A dictator! And such power could only be obtained by working
outside the law. To play on the weaknesses of human nature, then on the
weaknesses of nations--to get together and control a vast organization,
and finally to overthrow the existing order, and rule! The thought
intoxicated me....

“... I saw that I must lead two lives. A man like myself is bound to
attract notice. I must have a successful career which would mask my true
activities.... Also I must cultivate a personality. I modelled myself
upon famous K.C.’s. I reproduced their mannerisms, their magnetism. If I
had chosen to be an actor, I should have been the greatest actor living!
No disguises--no grease paint--no false beards! Personality! I put it
on like a glove! When I shed it, I was myself, quiet, unobtrusive, a man
like every other man. I called myself Mr. Brown. There are hundreds of
men called Brown--there are hundreds of men looking just like me....

“... I succeeded in my false career. I was bound to succeed. I shall
succeed in the other. A man like me cannot fail....

“... I have been reading a life of Napoleon. He and I have much in
common....

“... I make a practice of defending criminals. A man should look after
his own people....

“... Once or twice I have felt afraid. The first time was in Italy.
There was a dinner given. Professor D----, the great alienist, was
present. The talk fell on insanity. He said, ‘A great many men are
mad, and no one knows it. They do not know it themselves.’ I do not
understand why he looked at me when he said that. His glance was
strange.... I did not like it....

“... The war has disturbed me.... I thought it would further my plans.
The Germans are so efficient. Their spy system, too, was excellent.
The streets are full of these boys in khaki. All empty-headed young
fools.... Yet I do not know.... They won the war.... It disturbs me....

“... My plans are going well.... A girl butted in--I do not think she
really knew anything.... But we must give up the Esthonia.... No risks
now....

“.... All goes well. The loss of memory is vexing. It cannot be a fake.
No girl could deceive ME!...

“...The 29th.... That is very soon....” Mr. Carter paused.

“I will not read the details of the _coup_ that was planned. But there
are just two small entries that refer to the three of you. In the light
of what happened they are interesting.

“... By inducing the girl to come to me of her own accord, I have
succeeded in disarming her. But she has intuitive flashes that might be
dangerous.... She must be got out of the way.... I can do nothing with
the American. He suspects and dislikes me. But he cannot know. I fancy
my armour is impregnable.... Sometimes I fear I have underestimated
the other boy. He is not clever, but it is hard to blind his eyes to
facts....”

Mr. Carter shut the book.

“A great man,” he said. “Genius, or insanity, who can say?”

There was silence.

Then Mr. Carter rose to his feet.

“I will give you a toast. The Joint Venture which has so amply justified
itself by success!”

It was drunk with acclamation.

“There’s something more we want to hear,” continued Mr. Carter. He
looked at the American Ambassador. “I speak for you also, I know. We’ll
ask Miss Jane Finn to tell us the story that only Miss Tuppence has
heard so far--but before we do so we’ll drink her health. The health of
one of the bravest of America’s daughters, to whom is due the thanks and
gratitude of two great countries!”



CHAPTER XXVIII. AND AFTER

“THAT was a mighty good toast, Jane,” said Mr. Hersheimmer, as he and
his cousin were being driven back in the Rolls-Royce to the _Ritz_.

“The one to the joint venture?”

“No--the one to you. There isn’t another girl in the world who could
have carried it through as you did. You were just wonderful!”

Jane shook her head.

“I don’t feel wonderful. At heart I’m just tired and lonesome--and
longing for my own country.”

“That brings me to something I wanted to say. I heard the Ambassador
telling you his wife hoped you would come to them at the Embassy right
away. That’s good enough, but I’ve got another plan. Jane--I want you to
marry me! Don’t get scared and say no at once. You can’t love me right
away, of course, that’s impossible. But I’ve loved you from the very
moment I set eyes on your photo--and now I’ve seen you I’m simply crazy
about you! If you’ll only marry me, I won’t worry you any--you shall
take your own time. Maybe you’ll never come to love me, and if that’s
the case I’ll manage to set you free. But I want the right to look after
you, and take care of you.”

“That’s what I want,” said the girl wistfully. “Some one who’ll be good
to me. Oh, you don’t know how lonesome I feel!”

“Sure thing I do. Then I guess that’s all fixed up, and I’ll see the
archbishop about a special license to-morrow morning.”

“Oh, Julius!”

“Well, I don’t want to hustle you any, Jane, but there’s no sense in
waiting about. Don’t be scared--I shan’t expect you to love me all at
once.”

But a small hand was slipped into his.

“I love you now, Julius,” said Jane Finn. “I loved you that first moment
in the car when the bullet grazed your cheek....”

Five minutes later Jane murmured softly:

“I don’t know London very well, Julius, but is it such a very long way
from the _Savoy_ to the _Ritz?_”

“It depends how you go,” explained Julius unblushingly. “We’re going by
way of Regent’s Park!”

“Oh, Julius--what will the chauffeur think?”

“At the wages I pay him, he knows better than to do any independent
thinking. Why, Jane, the only reason I had the supper at the _Savoy_ was
so that I could drive you home. I didn’t see how I was ever going to
get hold of you alone. You and Tuppence have been sticking together
like Siamese twins. I guess another day of it would have driven me and
Beresford stark staring mad!”

“Oh. Is he----?”

“Of course he is. Head over ears.”

“I thought so,” said Jane thoughtfully.

“Why?”

“From all the things Tuppence didn’t say!”

“There you have me beat,” said Mr. Hersheimmer. But Jane only laughed.

In the meantime, the Young Adventurers were sitting bolt upright,
very stiff and ill at ease, in a taxi which, with a singular lack of
originality, was also returning to the _Ritz_ via Regent’s Park.

A terrible constraint seemed to have settled down between them. Without
quite knowing what had happened, everything seemed changed. They were
tongue-tied--paralysed. All the old _camaraderie_ was gone.

Tuppence could think of nothing to say.

Tommy was equally afflicted.

They sat very straight and forbore to look at each other.

At last Tuppence made a desperate effort.

“Rather fun, wasn’t it?”

“Rather.”

Another silence.

“I like Julius,” essayed Tuppence again.

Tommy was suddenly galvanized into life.

“You’re not going to marry him, do you hear?” he said dictatorially. “I
forbid it.”

“Oh!” said Tuppence meekly.

“Absolutely, you understand.”

“He doesn’t want to marry me--he really only asked me out of kindness.”

“That’s not very likely,” scoffed Tommy.

“It’s quite true. He’s head over ears in love with Jane. I expect he’s
proposing to her now.”

“She’ll do for him very nicely,” said Tommy condescendingly.

“Don’t you think she’s the most lovely creature you’ve ever seen?”

“Oh, I dare say.”

“But I suppose you prefer sterling worth,” said Tuppence demurely.

“I--oh, dash it all, Tuppence, you know!”

“I like your uncle, Tommy,” said Tuppence, hastily creating a diversion.
“By the way, what are you going to do, accept Mr. Carter’s offer of
a Government job, or accept Julius’s invitation and take a richly
remunerated post in America on his ranch?”

“I shall stick to the old ship, I think, though it’s awfully good of
Hersheimmer. But I feel you’d be more at home in London.”

“I don’t see where I come in.”

“I do,” said Tommy positively.

Tuppence stole a glance at him sideways.

“There’s the money, too,” she observed thoughtfully.

“What money?”

“We’re going to get a cheque each. Mr. Carter told me so.”

“Did you ask how much?” inquired Tommy sarcastically.

“Yes,” said Tuppence triumphantly. “But I shan’t tell you.”

“Tuppence, you are the limit!”

“It has been fun, hasn’t it, Tommy? I do hope we shall have lots more
adventures.”

“You’re insatiable, Tuppence. I’ve had quite enough adventures for the
present.”

“Well, shopping is almost as good,” said Tuppence dreamily. “Think of
buying old furniture, and bright carpets, and futurist silk curtains,
and a polished dining-table, and a divan with lots of cushions.”

“Hold hard,” said Tommy. “What’s all this for?”

“Possibly a house--but I think a flat.”

“Whose flat?”

“You think I mind saying it, but I don’t in the least! _Ours_, so
there!”

“You darling!” cried Tommy, his arms tightly round her. “I was
determined to make you say it. I owe you something for the relentless
way you’ve squashed me whenever I’ve tried to be sentimental.”

Tuppence raised her face to his. The taxi proceeded on its course round
the north side of Regent’s Park.

“You haven’t really proposed now,” pointed out Tuppence. “Not what our
grandmothers would call a proposal. But after listening to a rotten one
like Julius’s, I’m inclined to let you off.”

“You won’t be able to get out of marrying me, so don’t you think it.”

“What fun it will be,” responded Tuppence. “Marriage is called all sorts
of things, a haven, and a refuge, and a crowning glory, and a state of
bondage, and lots more. But do you know what I think it is?”

“What?”

“A sport!”

“And a damned good sport too,” said Tommy.



End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Secret Adversary, by Agatha
Christie

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SECRET ADVERSARY ***

***** This file should be named 1155-0.txt or 1155-0.zip ***** This and
all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/1/5/1155/

Produced by Charles Keller, and David Widger

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will be
renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no one
owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and
you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission
and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, set forth in
the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and
distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the
PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a
registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks,
unless you receive specific permission. If you do not charge anything
for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You
may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative
works, reports, performances and research. They may be modified and
printed and given away--you may do practically ANYTHING with public
domain eBooks. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license,
especially commercial redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU
DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree
to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all the
terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all
copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be used
on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree
to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few things that
you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works even without
complying with the full terms of this agreement. See paragraph 1.C
below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help
preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.
See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation”
 or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in
the collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you
are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent
you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating
derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project
Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope that you will support the
Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic
works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with
the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name
associated with the work. You can easily comply with the terms of this
agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached
full Project Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with
others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing
or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with almost
no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use
it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with
the phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work,
you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through
1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute
this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other
than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the full
Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access
to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, “Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.”

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth
in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from both the
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael Hart, the
owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as
set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm collection.
Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, and the
medium on which they may be stored, may contain “Defects,” such as, but
not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription
errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a
defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer
codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees.
YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY,
BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN
PARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND
ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES
EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect
in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive
a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written
explanation to the person you received the work from. If you received
the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your
written explanation. The person or entity that provided you with the
defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’ WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law. The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation,
the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will remain
freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and
permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations. To
learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and
how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the
Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state
of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue
Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification number
is 64-6221541. Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887,
email business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation’s web site and official page
at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide spread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing
the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely
distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest array
of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations ($1 to
$5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with
the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside
the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways
including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate,
please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S. unless
a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks
in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, including
how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to
our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Mysterious Affair at Styles, by Agatha Christie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Mysterious Affair at Styles

Author: Agatha Christie

Release Date: July 27, 2008 [EBook #863]
Last Updated: February 22, 2018

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES ***




Produced by Charles Keller








The Mysterious Affair at Styles

by Agatha Christie

Contents


CHAPTER I. I GO TO STYLES
CHAPTER II. THE 16TH AND 17TH OF JULY
CHAPTER III. THE NIGHT OF THE TRAGEDY
CHAPTER IV. POIROT INVESTIGATES
CHAPTER V. â€œIT ISNâ€™T STRYCHNINE, IS IT?â€�
CHAPTER VI. THE INQUEST
CHAPTER VII. POIROT PAYS HIS DEBTS
CHAPTER VIII. FRESH SUSPICIONS
CHAPTER IX. DR. BAUERSTEIN
CHAPTER X. THE ARREST
CHAPTER XI. THE CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION
CHAPTER XII. THE LAST LINK
CHAPTER XIII. POIROT EXPLAINS


CHAPTER I. I GO TO STYLES

The intense interest aroused in the public by what was known at the
time as â€œThe Styles Caseâ€� has now somewhat subsided. Nevertheless, in
view of the world-wide notoriety which attended it, I have been asked,
both by my friend Poirot and the family themselves, to write an account
of the whole story. This, we trust, will effectually silence the
sensational rumours which still persist.

I will therefore briefly set down the circumstances which led to my
being connected with the affair.

I had been invalided home from the Front; and, after spending some
months in a rather depressing Convalescent Home, was given a monthâ€™s
sick leave. Having no near relations or friends, I was trying to make
up my mind what to do, when I ran across John Cavendish. I had seen
very little of him for some years. Indeed, I had never known him
particularly well. He was a good fifteen years my senior, for one
thing, though he hardly looked his forty-five years. As a boy, though,
I had often stayed at Styles, his motherâ€™s place in Essex.

We had a good yarn about old times, and it ended in his inviting me
down to Styles to spend my leave there.

â€œThe mater will be delighted to see you againâ€”after all those years,â€�
he added.

â€œYour mother keeps well?â€� I asked.

â€œOh, yes. I suppose you know that she has married again?â€�

I am afraid I showed my surprise rather plainly. Mrs. Cavendish, who
had married Johnâ€™s father when he was a widower with two sons, had been
a handsome woman of middle-age as I remembered her. She certainly could
not be a day less than seventy now. I recalled her as an energetic,
autocratic personality, somewhat inclined to charitable and social
notoriety, with a fondness for opening bazaars and playing the Lady
Bountiful. She was a most generous woman, and possessed a considerable
fortune of her own.

Their country-place, Styles Court, had been purchased by Mr. Cavendish
early in their married life. He had been completely under his wifeâ€™s
ascendancy, so much so that, on dying, he left the place to her for her
lifetime, as well as the larger part of his income; an arrangement that
was distinctly unfair to his two sons. Their step-mother, however, had
always been most generous to them; indeed, they were so young at the
time of their fatherâ€™s remarriage that they always thought of her as
their own mother.

Lawrence, the younger, had been a delicate youth. He had qualified as a
doctor but early relinquished the profession of medicine, and lived at
home while pursuing literary ambitions; though his verses never had any
marked success.

John practised for some time as a barrister, but had finally settled
down to the more congenial life of a country squire. He had married two
years ago, and had taken his wife to live at Styles, though I
entertained a shrewd suspicion that he would have preferred his mother
to increase his allowance, which would have enabled him to have a home
of his own. Mrs. Cavendish, however, was a lady who liked to make her
own plans, and expected other people to fall in with them, and in this
case she certainly had the whip hand, namely: the purse strings.

John noticed my surprise at the news of his motherâ€™s remarriage and
smiled rather ruefully.

â€œRotten little bounder too!â€� he said savagely. â€œI can tell you,
Hastings, itâ€™s making life jolly difficult for us. As for Evieâ€”you
remember Evie?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œOh, I suppose she was after your time. Sheâ€™s the materâ€™s factotum,
companion, Jack of all trades! A great sportâ€”old Evie! Not precisely
young and beautiful, but as game as they make them.â€�

â€œYou were going to sayâ€”â€”?â€�

â€œOh, this fellow! He turned up from nowhere, on the pretext of being a
second cousin or something of Evieâ€™s, though she didnâ€™t seem
particularly keen to acknowledge the relationship. The fellow is an
absolute outsider, anyone can see that. Heâ€™s got a great black beard,
and wears patent leather boots in all weathers! But the mater cottoned
to him at once, took him on as secretaryâ€”you know how sheâ€™s always
running a hundred societies?â€�

I nodded.

â€œWell, of course the war has turned the hundreds into thousands. No
doubt the fellow was very useful to her. But you could have knocked us
all down with a feather when, three months ago, she suddenly announced
that she and Alfred were engaged! The fellow must be at least twenty
years younger than she is! Itâ€™s simply bare-faced fortune hunting; but
there you areâ€”she is her own mistress, and sheâ€™s married him.â€�

â€œIt must be a difficult situation for you all.â€�

â€œDifficult! Itâ€™s damnable!â€�

Thus it came about that, three days later, I descended from the train
at Styles St. Mary, an absurd little station, with no apparent reason
for existence, perched up in the midst of green fields and country
lanes. John Cavendish was waiting on the platform, and piloted me out
to the car.

â€œGot a drop or two of petrol still, you see,â€� he remarked. â€œMainly
owing to the materâ€™s activities.â€�

The village of Styles St. Mary was situated about two miles from the
little station, and Styles Court lay a mile the other side of it. It
was a still, warm day in early July. As one looked out over the flat
Essex country, lying so green and peaceful under the afternoon sun, it
seemed almost impossible to believe that, not so very far away, a great
war was running its appointed course. I felt I had suddenly strayed
into another world. As we turned in at the lodge gates, John said:

â€œIâ€™m afraid youâ€™ll find it very quiet down here, Hastings.â€�

â€œMy dear fellow, thatâ€™s just what I want.â€�

â€œOh, itâ€™s pleasant enough if you want to lead the idle life. I drill
with the volunteers twice a week, and lend a hand at the farms. My wife
works regularly â€˜on the landâ€™. She is up at five every morning to milk,
and keeps at it steadily until lunchtime. Itâ€™s a jolly good life taking
it all roundâ€”if it werenâ€™t for that fellow Alfred Inglethorp!â€� He
checked the car suddenly, and glanced at his watch. â€œI wonder if weâ€™ve
time to pick up Cynthia. No, sheâ€™ll have started from the hospital by
now.â€�

â€œCynthia! Thatâ€™s not your wife?â€�

â€œNo, Cynthia is a protÃ©gÃ©e of my motherâ€™s, the daughter of an old
schoolfellow of hers, who married a rascally solicitor. He came a
cropper, and the girl was left an orphan and penniless. My mother came
to the rescue, and Cynthia has been with us nearly two years now. She
works in the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster, seven miles away.â€�

As he spoke the last words, we drew up in front of the fine old house.
A lady in a stout tweed skirt, who was bending over a flower bed,
straightened herself at our approach.

â€œHullo, Evie, hereâ€™s our wounded hero! Mr. Hastingsâ€”Miss Howard.â€�

Miss Howard shook hands with a hearty, almost painful, grip. I had an
impression of very blue eyes in a sunburnt face. She was a
pleasant-looking woman of about forty, with a deep voice, almost manly
in its stentorian tones, and had a large sensible square body, with
feet to matchâ€”these last encased in good thick boots. Her conversation,
I soon found, was couched in the telegraphic style.

â€œWeeds grow like house afire. Canâ€™t keep even with â€™em. Shall press you
in. Better be careful.â€�

â€œIâ€™m sure I shall be only too delighted to make myself useful,â€� I
responded.

â€œDonâ€™t say it. Never does. Wish you hadnâ€™t later.â€�

â€œYouâ€™re a cynic, Evie,â€� said John, laughing. â€œWhereâ€™s tea to-dayâ€”inside
or out?â€�

â€œOut. Too fine a day to be cooped up in the house.â€�

â€œCome on then, youâ€™ve done enough gardening for to-day. â€˜The labourer
is worthy of his hireâ€™, you know. Come and be refreshed.â€�

â€œWell,â€� said Miss Howard, drawing off her gardening gloves, â€œIâ€™m
inclined to agree with you.â€�

She led the way round the house to where tea was spread under the shade
of a large sycamore.

A figure rose from one of the basket chairs, and came a few steps to
meet us.

â€œMy wife, Hastings,â€� said John.

I shall never forget my first sight of Mary Cavendish. Her tall,
slender form, outlined against the bright light; the vivid sense of
slumbering fire that seemed to find expression only in those wonderful
tawny eyes of hers, remarkable eyes, different from any other womanâ€™s
that I have ever known; the intense power of stillness she possessed,
which nevertheless conveyed the impression of a wild untamed spirit in
an exquisitely civilised bodyâ€”all these things are burnt into my
memory. I shall never forget them.

She greeted me with a few words of pleasant welcome in a low clear
voice, and I sank into a basket chair feeling distinctly glad that I
had accepted Johnâ€™s invitation. Mrs. Cavendish gave me some tea, and
her few quiet remarks heightened my first impression of her as a
thoroughly fascinating woman. An appreciative listener is always
stimulating, and I described, in a humorous manner, certain incidents
of my Convalescent Home, in a way which, I flatter myself, greatly
amused my hostess. John, of course, good fellow though he is, could
hardly be called a brilliant conversationalist.

At that moment a well remembered voice floated through the open French
window near at hand:

â€œThen youâ€™ll write to the Princess after tea, Alfred? Iâ€™ll write to
Lady Tadminster for the second day, myself. Or shall we wait until we
hear from the Princess? In case of a refusal, Lady Tadminster might
open it the first day, and Mrs. Crosbie the second. Then thereâ€™s the
Duchessâ€”about the school fÃªte.â€�

There was the murmur of a manâ€™s voice, and then Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s rose
in reply:

â€œYes, certainly. After tea will do quite well. You are so thoughtful,
Alfred dear.â€�

The French window swung open a little wider, and a handsome
white-haired old lady, with a somewhat masterful cast of features,
stepped out of it on to the lawn. A man followed her, a suggestion of
deference in his manner.

Mrs. Inglethorp greeted me with effusion.

â€œWhy, if it isnâ€™t too delightful to see you again, Mr. Hastings, after
all these years. Alfred, darling, Mr. Hastingsâ€”my husband.â€�

I looked with some curiosity at â€œAlfred darlingâ€�. He certainly struck a
rather alien note. I did not wonder at John objecting to his beard. It
was one of the longest and blackest I have ever seen. He wore
gold-rimmed pince-nez, and had a curious impassivity of feature. It
struck me that he might look natural on a stage, but was strangely out
of place in real life. His voice was rather deep and unctuous. He
placed a wooden hand in mine and said:

â€œThis is a pleasure, Mr. Hastings.â€� Then, turning to his wife: â€œEmily
dearest, I think that cushion is a little damp.â€�

She beamed fondly on him, as he substituted another with every
demonstration of the tenderest care. Strange infatuation of an
otherwise sensible woman!

With the presence of Mr. Inglethorp, a sense of constraint and veiled
hostility seemed to settle down upon the company. Miss Howard, in
particular, took no pains to conceal her feelings. Mrs. Inglethorp,
however, seemed to notice nothing unusual. Her volubility, which I
remembered of old, had lost nothing in the intervening years, and she
poured out a steady flood of conversation, mainly on the subject of the
forthcoming bazaar which she was organizing and which was to take place
shortly. Occasionally she referred to her husband over a question of
days or dates. His watchful and attentive manner never varied. From the
very first I took a firm and rooted dislike to him, and I flatter
myself that my first judgments are usually fairly shrewd.

Presently Mrs. Inglethorp turned to give some instructions about
letters to Evelyn Howard, and her husband addressed me in his
painstaking voice:

â€œIs soldiering your regular profession, Mr. Hastings?â€�

â€œNo, before the war I was in Lloydâ€™s.â€�

â€œAnd you will return there after it is over?â€�

â€œPerhaps. Either that or a fresh start altogether.â€�

Mary Cavendish leant forward.

â€œWhat would you really choose as a profession, if you could just
consult your inclination?â€�

â€œWell, that depends.â€�

â€œNo secret hobby?â€� she asked. â€œTell meâ€”youâ€™re drawn to something?
Everyone isâ€”usually something absurd.â€�

â€œYouâ€™ll laugh at me.â€�

She smiled.

â€œPerhaps.â€�

â€œWell, Iâ€™ve always had a secret hankering to be a detective!â€�

â€œThe real thingâ€”Scotland Yard? Or Sherlock Holmes?â€�

â€œOh, Sherlock Holmes by all means. But really, seriously, I am awfully
drawn to it. I came across a man in Belgium once, a very famous
detective, and he quite inflamed me. He was a marvellous little fellow.
He used to say that all good detective work was a mere matter of
method. My system is based on hisâ€”though of course I have progressed
rather further. He was a funny little man, a great dandy, but
wonderfully clever.â€�

â€œLike a good detective story myself,â€� remarked Miss Howard. â€œLots of
nonsense written, though. Criminal discovered in last chapter. Everyone
dumbfounded. Real crimeâ€”youâ€™d know at once.â€�

â€œThere have been a great number of undiscovered crimes,â€� I argued.

â€œDonâ€™t mean the police, but the people that are right in it. The
family. You couldnâ€™t really hoodwink them. Theyâ€™d know.â€�

â€œThen,â€� I said, much amused, â€œyou think that if you were mixed up in a
crime, say a murder, youâ€™d be able to spot the murderer right off?â€�

â€œOf course I should. Mightnâ€™t be able to prove it to a pack of lawyers.
But Iâ€™m certain Iâ€™d know. Iâ€™d feel it in my fingertips if he came near
me.â€�

â€œIt might be a â€˜sheâ€™,â€� I suggested.

â€œMight. But murderâ€™s a violent crime. Associate it more with a man.â€�

â€œNot in a case of poisoning.â€� Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s clear voice startled me.
â€œDr. Bauerstein was saying yesterday that, owing to the general
ignorance of the more uncommon poisons among the medical profession,
there were probably countless cases of poisoning quite unsuspected.â€�

â€œWhy, Mary, what a gruesome conversation!â€� cried Mrs. Inglethorp. â€œIt
makes me feel as if a goose were walking over my grave. Oh, thereâ€™s
Cynthia!â€�

A young girl in V.A.D. uniform ran lightly across the lawn.

â€œWhy, Cynthia, you are late to-day. This is Mr. Hastingsâ€”Miss Murdoch.â€�

Cynthia Murdoch was a fresh-looking young creature, full of life and
vigour. She tossed off her little V.A.D. cap, and I admired the great
loose waves of her auburn hair, and the smallness and whiteness of the
hand she held out to claim her tea. With dark eyes and eyelashes she
would have been a beauty.

She flung herself down on the ground beside John, and as I handed her a
plate of sandwiches she smiled up at me.

â€œSit down here on the grass, do. Itâ€™s ever so much nicer.â€�

I dropped down obediently.

â€œYou work at Tadminster, donâ€™t you, Miss Murdoch?â€�

She nodded.

â€œFor my sins.â€�

â€œDo they bully you, then?â€� I asked, smiling.

â€œI should like to see them!â€� cried Cynthia with dignity.

â€œI have got a cousin who is nursing,â€� I remarked. â€œAnd she is terrified
of â€˜Sistersâ€™.â€�

â€œI donâ€™t wonder. Sisters _are_, you know, Mr. Hastings. They simp-ly
_are_! Youâ€™ve no idea! But Iâ€™m not a nurse, thank heaven, I work in the
dispensary.â€�

â€œHow many people do you poison?â€� I asked, smiling.

Cynthia smiled too.

â€œOh, hundreds!â€� she said.

â€œCynthia,â€� called Mrs. Inglethorp, â€œdo you think you could write a few
notes for me?â€�

â€œCertainly, Aunt Emily.â€�

She jumped up promptly, and something in her manner reminded me that
her position was a dependent one, and that Mrs. Inglethorp, kind as she
might be in the main, did not allow her to forget it.

My hostess turned to me.

â€œJohn will show you your room. Supper is at half-past seven. We have
given up late dinner for some time now. Lady Tadminster, our Memberâ€™s
wifeâ€”she was the late Lord Abbotsburyâ€™s daughterâ€”does the same. She
agrees with me that one must set an example of economy. We are quite a
war household; nothing is wasted hereâ€”every scrap of waste paper, even,
is saved and sent away in sacks.â€�

I expressed my appreciation, and John took me into the house and up the
broad staircase, which forked right and left half-way to different
wings of the building. My room was in the left wing, and looked out
over the park.

John left me, and a few minutes later I saw him from my window walking
slowly across the grass arm in arm with Cynthia Murdoch. I heard Mrs.
Inglethorp call â€œCynthiaâ€� impatiently, and the girl started and ran
back to the house. At the same moment, a man stepped out from the
shadow of a tree and walked slowly in the same direction. He looked
about forty, very dark with a melancholy clean-shaven face. Some
violent emotion seemed to be mastering him. He looked up at my window
as he passed, and I recognized him, though he had changed much in the
fifteen years that had elapsed since we last met. It was Johnâ€™s younger
brother, Lawrence Cavendish. I wondered what it was that had brought
that singular expression to his face.

Then I dismissed him from my mind, and returned to the contemplation of
my own affairs.

The evening passed pleasantly enough; and I dreamed that night of that
enigmatical woman, Mary Cavendish.

The next morning dawned bright and sunny, and I was full of the
anticipation of a delightful visit.

I did not see Mrs. Cavendish until lunch-time, when she volunteered to
take me for a walk, and we spent a charming afternoon roaming in the
woods, returning to the house about five.

As we entered the large hall, John beckoned us both into the
smoking-room. I saw at once by his face that something disturbing had
occurred. We followed him in, and he shut the door after us.

â€œLook here, Mary, thereâ€™s the deuce of a mess. Evieâ€™s had a row with
Alfred Inglethorp, and sheâ€™s off.â€�

â€œEvie? Off?â€�

John nodded gloomily.

â€œYes; you see she went to the mater, andâ€”Oh,â€”hereâ€™s Evie herself.â€�

Miss Howard entered. Her lips were set grimly together, and she carried
a small suit-case. She looked excited and determined, and slightly on
the defensive.

â€œAt any rate,â€� she burst out, â€œIâ€™ve spoken my mind!â€�

â€œMy dear Evelyn,â€� cried Mrs. Cavendish, â€œthis canâ€™t be true!â€�

Miss Howard nodded grimly.

â€œTrue enough! Afraid I said some things to Emily she wonâ€™t forget or
forgive in a hurry. Donâ€™t mind if theyâ€™ve only sunk in a bit. Probably
water off a duckâ€™s back, though. I said right out: â€˜Youâ€™re an old
woman, Emily, and thereâ€™s no fool like an old fool. The manâ€™s twenty
years younger than you, and donâ€™t you fool yourself as to what he
married you for. Money! Well, donâ€™t let him have too much of it. Farmer
Raikes has got a very pretty young wife. Just ask your Alfred how much
time he spends over there.â€™ She was very angry. Natural! I went on,
â€˜Iâ€™m going to warn you, whether you like it or not. That man would as
soon murder you in your bed as look at you. Heâ€™s a bad lot. You can say
what you like to me, but remember what Iâ€™ve told you. Heâ€™s a bad lot!â€™â€�

â€œWhat did she say?â€�

Miss Howard made an extremely expressive grimace.

â€œâ€˜Darling Alfredâ€™â€”â€˜dearest Alfredâ€™â€”â€˜wicked calumniesâ€™ â€”â€˜wicked
liesâ€™â€”â€˜wicked womanâ€™â€”to accuse her â€˜dear husband!â€™ The sooner I left
her house the better. So Iâ€™m off.â€�

â€œBut not now?â€�

â€œThis minute!â€�

For a moment we sat and stared at her. Finally John Cavendish, finding
his persuasions of no avail, went off to look up the trains. His wife
followed him, murmuring something about persuading Mrs. Inglethorp to
think better of it.

As she left the room, Miss Howardâ€™s face changed. She leant towards me
eagerly.

â€œMr. Hastings, youâ€™re honest. I can trust you?â€�

I was a little startled. She laid her hand on my arm, and sank her
voice to a whisper.

â€œLook after her, Mr. Hastings. My poor Emily. Theyâ€™re a lot of
sharksâ€”all of them. Oh, I know what Iâ€™m talking about. There isnâ€™t one
of them thatâ€™s not hard up and trying to get money out of her. Iâ€™ve
protected her as much as I could. Now Iâ€™m out of the way, theyâ€™ll
impose upon her.â€�

â€œOf course, Miss Howard,â€� I said, â€œIâ€™ll do everything I can, but Iâ€™m
sure youâ€™re excited and overwrought.â€�

She interrupted me by slowly shaking her forefinger.

â€œYoung man, trust me. Iâ€™ve lived in the world rather longer than you
have. All I ask you is to keep your eyes open. Youâ€™ll see what I mean.â€�

The throb of the motor came through the open window, and Miss Howard
rose and moved to the door. Johnâ€™s voice sounded outside. With her hand
on the handle, she turned her head over her shoulder, and beckoned to
me.

â€œAbove all, Mr. Hastings, watch that devilâ€”her husband!â€�

There was no time for more. Miss Howard was swallowed up in an eager
chorus of protests and good-byes. The Inglethorps did not appear.

As the motor drove away, Mrs. Cavendish suddenly detached herself from
the group, and moved across the drive to the lawn to meet a tall
bearded man who had been evidently making for the house. The colour
rose in her cheeks as she held out her hand to him.

â€œWho is that?â€� I asked sharply, for instinctively I distrusted the man.

â€œThatâ€™s Dr. Bauerstein,â€� said John shortly.

â€œAnd who is Dr. Bauerstein?â€�

â€œHeâ€™s staying in the village doing a rest cure, after a bad nervous
breakdown. Heâ€™s a London specialist; a very clever manâ€”one of the
greatest living experts on poisons, I believe.â€�

â€œAnd heâ€™s a great friend of Maryâ€™s,â€� put in Cynthia, the irrepressible.

John Cavendish frowned and changed the subject.

â€œCome for a stroll, Hastings. This has been a most rotten business. She
always had a rough tongue, but there is no stauncher friend in England
than Evelyn Howard.â€�

He took the path through the plantation, and we walked down to the
village through the woods which bordered one side of the estate.

As we passed through one of the gates on our way home again, a pretty
young woman of gipsy type coming in the opposite direction bowed and
smiled.

â€œThatâ€™s a pretty girl,â€� I remarked appreciatively.

Johnâ€™s face hardened.

â€œThat is Mrs. Raikes.â€�

â€œThe one that Miss Howardâ€”â€”â€�

â€œExactly,â€� said John, with rather unnecessary abruptness.

I thought of the white-haired old lady in the big house, and that vivid
wicked little face that had just smiled into ours, and a vague chill of
foreboding crept over me. I brushed it aside.

â€œStyles is really a glorious old place,â€� I said to John.

He nodded rather gloomily.

â€œYes, itâ€™s a fine property. Itâ€™ll be mine some dayâ€”should be mine now
by rights, if my father had only made a decent will. And then I
shouldnâ€™t be so damned hard up as I am now.â€�

â€œHard up, are you?â€�

â€œMy dear Hastings, I donâ€™t mind telling you that Iâ€™m at my witsâ€™ end
for money.â€�

â€œCouldnâ€™t your brother help you?â€�

â€œLawrence? Heâ€™s gone through every penny he ever had, publishing rotten
verses in fancy bindings. No, weâ€™re an impecunious lot. My motherâ€™s
always been awfully good to us, I must say. That is, up to now. Since
her marriage, of courseâ€”â€”â€� he broke off, frowning.

For the first time I felt that, with Evelyn Howard, something
indefinable had gone from the atmosphere. Her presence had spelt
security. Now that security was removedâ€”and the air seemed rife with
suspicion. The sinister face of Dr. Bauerstein recurred to me
unpleasantly. A vague suspicion of everyone and everything filled my
mind. Just for a moment I had a premonition of approaching evil.






CHAPTER II. THE 16TH AND 17TH OF JULY

I had arrived at Styles on the 5th of July. I come now to the events of
the 16th and 17th of that month. For the convenience of the reader I
will recapitulate the incidents of those days in as exact a manner as
possible. They were elicited subsequently at the trial by a process of
long and tedious cross-examinations.

I received a letter from Evelyn Howard a couple of days after her
departure, telling me she was working as a nurse at the big hospital in
Middlingham, a manufacturing town some fifteen miles away, and begging
me to let her know if Mrs. Inglethorp should show any wish to be
reconciled.

The only fly in the ointment of my peaceful days was Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s
extraordinary, and, for my part, unaccountable preference for the
society of Dr. Bauerstein. What she saw in the man I cannot imagine,
but she was always asking him up to the house, and often went off for
long expeditions with him. I must confess that I was quite unable to
see his attraction.

The 16th of July fell on a Monday. It was a day of turmoil. The famous
bazaar had taken place on Saturday, and an entertainment, in connection
with the same charity, at which Mrs. Inglethorp was to recite a War
poem, was to be held that night. We were all busy during the morning
arranging and decorating the Hall in the village where it was to take
place. We had a late luncheon and spent the afternoon resting in the
garden. I noticed that Johnâ€™s manner was somewhat unusual. He seemed
very excited and restless.

After tea, Mrs. Inglethorp went to lie down to rest before her efforts
in the evening and I challenged Mary Cavendish to a single at tennis.

About a quarter to seven, Mrs. Inglethorp called us that we should be
late as supper was early that night. We had rather a scramble to get
ready in time; and before the meal was over the motor was waiting at
the door.

The entertainment was a great success, Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s recitation
receiving tremendous applause. There were also some tableaux in which
Cynthia took part. She did not return with us, having been asked to a
supper party, and to remain the night with some friends who had been
acting with her in the tableaux.

The following morning, Mrs. Inglethorp stayed in bed to breakfast, as
she was rather overtired; but she appeared in her briskest mood about
12.30, and swept Lawrence and myself off to a luncheon party.

â€œSuch a charming invitation from Mrs. Rolleston. Lady Tadminsterâ€™s
sister, you know. The Rollestons came over with the Conquerorâ€”one of
our oldest families.â€�

Mary had excused herself on the plea of an engagement with Dr.
Bauerstein.

We had a pleasant luncheon, and as we drove away Lawrence suggested
that we should return by Tadminster, which was barely a mile out of our
way, and pay a visit to Cynthia in her dispensary. Mrs. Inglethorp
replied that this was an excellent idea, but as she had several letters
to write she would drop us there, and we could come back with Cynthia
in the pony-trap.

We were detained under suspicion by the hospital porter, until Cynthia
appeared to vouch for us, looking very cool and sweet in her long white
overall. She took us up to her sanctum, and introduced us to her fellow
dispenser, a rather awe-inspiring individual, whom Cynthia cheerily
addressed as â€œNibs.â€�

â€œWhat a lot of bottles!â€� I exclaimed, as my eye travelled round the
small room. â€œDo you really know whatâ€™s in them all?â€�

â€œSay something original,â€� groaned Cynthia. â€œEvery single person who
comes up here says that. We are really thinking of bestowing a prize on
the first individual who does _not_ say: â€˜What a lot of bottles!â€™ And I
know the next thing youâ€™re going to say is: â€˜How many people have you
poisoned?â€™â€�

I pleaded guilty with a laugh.

â€œIf you people only knew how fatally easy it is to poison someone by
mistake, you wouldnâ€™t joke about it. Come on, letâ€™s have tea. Weâ€™ve got
all sorts of secret stories in that cupboard. No, Lawrenceâ€”thatâ€™s the
poison cupboard. The big cupboardâ€”thatâ€™s right.â€�

We had a very cheery tea, and assisted Cynthia to wash up afterwards.
We had just put away the last tea-spoon when a knock came at the door.
The countenances of Cynthia and Nibs were suddenly petrified into a
stern and forbidding expression.

â€œCome in,â€� said Cynthia, in a sharp professional tone.

A young and rather scared looking nurse appeared with a bottle which
she proffered to Nibs, who waved her towards Cynthia with the somewhat
enigmatical remark:

â€œ_I_â€™m not really here to-day.â€�

Cynthia took the bottle and examined it with the severity of a judge.

â€œThis should have been sent up this morning.â€�

â€œSister is very sorry. She forgot.â€�

â€œSister should read the rules outside the door.â€�

I gathered from the little nurseâ€™s expression that there was not the
least likelihood of her having the hardihood to retail this message to
the dreaded â€œSisterâ€�.

â€œSo now it canâ€™t be done until to-morrow,â€� finished Cynthia.

â€œDonâ€™t you think you could possibly let us have it to-night?â€�

â€œWell,â€� said Cynthia graciously, â€œwe are very busy, but if we have time
it shall be done.â€�

The little nurse withdrew, and Cynthia promptly took a jar from the
shelf, refilled the bottle, and placed it on the table outside the
door.

I laughed.

â€œDiscipline must be maintained?â€�

â€œExactly. Come out on our little balcony. You can see all the outside
wards there.â€�

I followed Cynthia and her friend and they pointed out the different
wards to me. Lawrence remained behind, but after a few moments Cynthia
called to him over her shoulder to come and join us. Then she looked at
her watch.

â€œNothing more to do, Nibs?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œAll right. Then we can lock up and go.â€�

I had seen Lawrence in quite a different light that afternoon. Compared
to John, he was an astoundingly difficult person to get to know. He was
the opposite of his brother in almost every respect, being unusually
shy and reserved. Yet he had a certain charm of manner, and I fancied
that, if one really knew him well, one could have a deep affection for
him. I had always fancied that his manner to Cynthia was rather
constrained, and that she on her side was inclined to be shy of him.
But they were both gay enough this afternoon, and chatted together like
a couple of children.

As we drove through the village, I remembered that I wanted some
stamps, so accordingly we pulled up at the post office.

As I came out again, I cannoned into a little man who was just
entering. I drew aside and apologised, when suddenly, with a loud
exclamation, he clasped me in his arms and kissed me warmly.

â€œ_Mon ami_ Hastings!â€� he cried. â€œIt is indeed _mon ami_ Hastings!â€�

â€œPoirot!â€� I exclaimed.

I turned to the pony-trap.

â€œThis is a very pleasant meeting for me, Miss Cynthia. This is my old
friend, Monsieur Poirot, whom I have not seen for years.â€�

â€œOh, we know Monsieur Poirot,â€� said Cynthia gaily. â€œBut I had no idea
he was a friend of yours.â€�

â€œYes, indeed,â€� said Poirot seriously. â€œI know Mademoiselle Cynthia. It
is by the charity of that good Mrs. Inglethorp that I am here.â€� Then,
as I looked at him inquiringly: â€œYes, my friend, she had kindly
extended hospitality to seven of my countrypeople who, alas, are
refugees from their native land. We Belgians will always remember her
with gratitude.â€�

Poirot was an extraordinary looking little man. He was hardly more than
five feet, four inches, but carried himself with great dignity. His
head was exactly the shape of an egg, and he always perched it a little
on one side. His moustache was very stiff and military. The neatness of
his attire was almost incredible. I believe a speck of dust would have
caused him more pain than a bullet wound. Yet this quaint dandified
little man who, I was sorry to see, now limped badly, had been in his
time one of the most celebrated members of the Belgian police. As a
detective, his _flair_ had been extraordinary, and he had achieved
triumphs by unravelling some of the most baffling cases of the day.

He pointed out to me the little house inhabited by him and his fellow
Belgians, and I promised to go and see him at an early date. Then he
raised his hat with a flourish to Cynthia, and we drove away.

â€œHeâ€™s a dear little man,â€� said Cynthia. â€œIâ€™d no idea you knew him.â€�

â€œYouâ€™ve been entertaining a celebrity unawares,â€� I replied.

And, for the rest of the way home, I recited to them the various
exploits and triumphs of Hercule Poirot.

We arrived back in a very cheerful mood. As we entered the hall, Mrs.
Inglethorp came out of her boudoir. She looked flushed and upset.

â€œOh, itâ€™s you,â€� she said.

â€œIs there anything the matter, Aunt Emily?â€� asked Cynthia.

â€œCertainly not,â€� said Mrs. Inglethorp sharply. â€œWhat should there be?â€�
Then catching sight of Dorcas, the parlourmaid, going into the
dining-room, she called to her to bring some stamps into the boudoir.

â€œYes, mâ€™m.â€� The old servant hesitated, then added diffidently: â€œDonâ€™t
you think, mâ€™m, youâ€™d better get to bed? Youâ€™re looking very tired.â€�

â€œPerhaps youâ€™re right, Dorcasâ€”yesâ€”noâ€”not now. Iâ€™ve some letters I must
finish by post-time. Have you lighted the fire in my room as I told
you?â€�

â€œYes, mâ€™m.â€�

â€œThen Iâ€™ll go to bed directly after supper.â€�

She went into the boudoir again, and Cynthia stared after her.

â€œGoodness gracious! I wonder whatâ€™s up?â€� she said to Lawrence.

He did not seem to have heard her, for without a word he turned on his
heel and went out of the house.

I suggested a quick game of tennis before supper and, Cynthia agreeing,
I ran upstairs to fetch my racquet.

Mrs. Cavendish was coming down the stairs. It may have been my fancy,
but she, too, was looking odd and disturbed.

â€œHad a good walk with Dr. Bauerstein?â€� I asked, trying to appear as
indifferent as I could.

â€œI didnâ€™t go,â€� she replied abruptly. â€œWhere is Mrs. Inglethorp?â€�

â€œIn the boudoir.â€�

Her hand clenched itself on the banisters, then she seemed to nerve
herself for some encounter, and went rapidly past me down the stairs
across the hall to the boudoir, the door of which she shut behind her.

As I ran out to the tennis court a few moments later, I had to pass the
open boudoir window, and was unable to help overhearing the following
scrap of dialogue. Mary Cavendish was saying in the voice of a woman
desperately controlling herself:

â€œThen you wonâ€™t show it to me?â€�

To which Mrs. Inglethorp replied:

â€œMy dear Mary, it has nothing to do with that matter.â€�

â€œThen show it to me.â€�

â€œI tell you it is not what you imagine. It does not concern you in the
least.â€�

To which Mary Cavendish replied, with a rising bitterness:

â€œOf course, I might have known you would shield him.â€�

Cynthia was waiting for me, and greeted me eagerly with:

â€œI say! Thereâ€™s been the most awful row! Iâ€™ve got it all out of
Dorcas.â€�

â€œWhat kind of a row?â€�

â€œBetween Aunt Emily and _him_. I do hope sheâ€™s found him out at last!â€�

â€œWas Dorcas there, then?â€�

â€œOf course not. She â€˜happened to be near the doorâ€™. It was a real old
bust-up. I do wish I knew what it was all about.â€�

I thought of Mrs. Raikesâ€™s gipsy face, and Evelyn Howardâ€™s warnings,
but wisely decided to hold my peace, whilst Cynthia exhausted every
possible hypothesis, and cheerfully hoped, â€œAunt Emily will send him
away, and will never speak to him again.â€�

I was anxious to get hold of John, but he was nowhere to be seen.
Evidently something very momentous had occurred that afternoon. I tried
to forget the few words I had overheard; but, do what I would, I could
not dismiss them altogether from my mind. What was Mary Cavendishâ€™s
concern in the matter?

Mr. Inglethorp was in the drawing-room when I came down to supper. His
face was impassive as ever, and the strange unreality of the man struck
me afresh.

Mrs. Inglethorp came down last. She still looked agitated, and during
the meal there was a somewhat constrained silence. Inglethorp was
unusually quiet. As a rule, he surrounded his wife with little
attentions, placing a cushion at her back, and altogether playing the
part of the devoted husband. Immediately after supper, Mrs. Inglethorp
retired to her boudoir again.

â€œSend my coffee in here, Mary,â€� she called. â€œIâ€™ve just five minutes to
catch the post.â€�

Cynthia and I went and sat by the open window in the drawing-room. Mary
Cavendish brought our coffee to us. She seemed excited.

â€œDo you young people want lights, or do you enjoy the twilight?â€� she
asked. â€œWill you take Mrs. Inglethorp her coffee, Cynthia? I will pour
it out.â€�

â€œDo not trouble, Mary,â€� said Inglethorp. â€œI will take it to Emily.â€� He
poured it out, and went out of the room carrying it carefully.

Lawrence followed him, and Mrs. Cavendish sat down by us.

We three sat for some time in silence. It was a glorious night, hot and
still. Mrs. Cavendish fanned herself gently with a palm leaf.

â€œItâ€™s almost too hot,â€� she murmured. â€œWe shall have a thunderstorm.â€�

Alas, that these harmonious moments can never endure! My paradise was
rudely shattered by the sound of a well known, and heartily disliked,
voice in the hall.

â€œDr. Bauerstein!â€� exclaimed Cynthia. â€œWhat a funny time to come.â€�

I glanced jealously at Mary Cavendish, but she seemed quite
undisturbed, the delicate pallor of her cheeks did not vary.

In a few moments, Alfred Inglethorp had ushered the doctor in, the
latter laughing, and protesting that he was in no fit state for a
drawing-room. In truth, he presented a sorry spectacle, being literally
plastered with mud.

â€œWhat have you been doing, doctor?â€� cried Mrs. Cavendish.

â€œI must make my apologies,â€� said the doctor. â€œI did not really mean to
come in, but Mr. Inglethorp insisted.â€�

â€œWell, Bauerstein, you are in a plight,â€� said John, strolling in from
the hall. â€œHave some coffee, and tell us what you have been up to.â€�

â€œThank you, I will.â€� He laughed rather ruefully, as he described how he
had discovered a very rare species of fern in an inaccessible place,
and in his efforts to obtain it had lost his footing, and slipped
ignominiously into a neighbouring pond.

â€œThe sun soon dried me off,â€� he added, â€œbut Iâ€™m afraid my appearance is
very disreputable.â€�

At this juncture, Mrs. Inglethorp called to Cynthia from the hall, and
the girl ran out.

â€œJust carry up my despatch-case, will you, dear? Iâ€™m going to bed.â€�

The door into the hall was a wide one. I had risen when Cynthia did,
John was close by me. There were therefore three witnesses who could
swear that Mrs. Inglethorp was carrying her coffee, as yet untasted, in
her hand.

My evening was utterly and entirely spoilt by the presence of Dr.
Bauerstein. It seemed to me the man would never go. He rose at last,
however, and I breathed a sigh of relief.

â€œIâ€™ll walk down to the village with you,â€� said Mr. Inglethorp. â€œI must
see our agent over those estate accounts.â€� He turned to John. â€œNo one
need sit up. I will take the latch-key.â€�






CHAPTER III. THE NIGHT OF THE TRAGEDY

To make this part of my story clear, I append the following plan of the
first floor of Styles. The servantsâ€™ rooms are reached through the door
B. They have no communication with the right wing, where the
Inglethorpsâ€™ rooms were situated.




       01



It seemed to be the middle of the night when I was awakened by Lawrence
Cavendish. He had a candle in his hand, and the agitation of his face
told me at once that something was seriously wrong.

â€œWhatâ€™s the matter?â€� I asked, sitting up in bed, and trying to collect
my scattered thoughts.

â€œWe are afraid my mother is very ill. She seems to be having some kind
of fit. Unfortunately she has locked herself in.â€�

â€œIâ€™ll come at once.â€�

I sprang out of bed; and, pulling on a dressing-gown, followed Lawrence
along the passage and the gallery to the right wing of the house.

John Cavendish joined us, and one or two of the servants were standing
round in a state of awe-stricken excitement. Lawrence turned to his
brother.

â€œWhat do you think we had better do?â€�

Never, I thought, had his indecision of character been more apparent.

John rattled the handle of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s door violently, but with
no effect. It was obviously locked or bolted on the inside. The whole
household was aroused by now. The most alarming sounds were audible
from the interior of the room. Clearly something must be done.

â€œTry going through Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s room, sir,â€� cried Dorcas. â€œOh, the
poor mistress!â€�

Suddenly I realized that Alfred Inglethorp was not with usâ€”that he
alone had given no sign of his presence. John opened the door of his
room. It was pitch dark, but Lawrence was following with the candle,
and by its feeble light we saw that the bed had not been slept in, and
that there was no sign of the room having been occupied.

We went straight to the connecting door. That, too, was locked or
bolted on the inside. What was to be done?

â€œOh, dear, sir,â€� cried Dorcas, wringing her hands, â€œwhat ever shall we
do?â€�

â€œWe must try and break the door in, I suppose. Itâ€™ll be a tough job,
though. Here, let one of the maids go down and wake Baily and tell him
to go for Dr. Wilkins at once. Now then, weâ€™ll have a try at the door.
Half a moment, though, isnâ€™t there a door into Miss Cynthiaâ€™s rooms?â€�

â€œYes, sir, but thatâ€™s always bolted. Itâ€™s never been undone.â€�

â€œWell, we might just see.â€�

He ran rapidly down the corridor to Cynthiaâ€™s room. Mary Cavendish was
there, shaking the girlâ€”who must have been an unusually sound
sleeperâ€”and trying to wake her.

In a moment or two he was back.

â€œNo good. Thatâ€™s bolted too. We must break in the door. I think this
one is a shade less solid than the one in the passage.â€�

We strained and heaved together. The framework of the door was solid,
and for a long time it resisted our efforts, but at last we felt it
give beneath our weight, and finally, with a resounding crash, it was
burst open.

We stumbled in together, Lawrence still holding his candle. Mrs.
Inglethorp was lying on the bed, her whole form agitated by violent
convulsions, in one of which she must have overturned the table beside
her. As we entered, however, her limbs relaxed, and she fell back upon
the pillows.

John strode across the room, and lit the gas. Turning to Annie, one of
the housemaids, he sent her downstairs to the dining-room for brandy.
Then he went across to his mother whilst I unbolted the door that gave
on the corridor.

I turned to Lawrence, to suggest that I had better leave them now that
there was no further need of my services, but the words were frozen on
my lips. Never have I seen such a ghastly look on any manâ€™s face. He
was white as chalk, the candle he held in his shaking hand was
sputtering onto the carpet, and his eyes, petrified with terror, or
some such kindred emotion, stared fixedly over my head at a point on
the further wall. It was as though he had seen something that turned
him to stone. I instinctively followed the direction of his eyes, but I
could see nothing unusual. The still feebly flickering ashes in the
grate, and the row of prim ornaments on the mantelpiece, were surely
harmless enough.

The violence of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s attack seemed to be passing. She was
able to speak in short gasps.

â€œBetter nowâ€”very suddenâ€”stupid of meâ€”to lock myself in.â€�

A shadow fell on the bed and, looking up, I saw Mary Cavendish standing
near the door with her arm around Cynthia. She seemed to be supporting
the girl, who looked utterly dazed and unlike herself. Her face was
heavily flushed, and she yawned repeatedly.

â€œPoor Cynthia is quite frightened,â€� said Mrs. Cavendish in a low clear
voice. She herself, I noticed, was dressed in her white land smock.
Then it must be later than I thought. I saw that a faint streak of
daylight was showing through the curtains of the windows, and that the
clock on the mantelpiece pointed to close upon five oâ€™clock.

A strangled cry from the bed startled me. A fresh access of pain seized
the unfortunate old lady. The convulsions were of a violence terrible
to behold. Everything was confusion. We thronged round her, powerless
to help or alleviate. A final convulsion lifted her from the bed, until
she appeared to rest upon her head and her heels, with her body arched
in an extraordinary manner. In vain Mary and John tried to administer
more brandy. The moments flew. Again the body arched itself in that
peculiar fashion.

At that moment, Dr. Bauerstein pushed his way authoritatively into the
room. For one instant he stopped dead, staring at the figure on the
bed, and, at the same instant, Mrs. Inglethorp cried out in a strangled
voice, her eyes fixed on the doctor:

â€œAlfredâ€”Alfredâ€”â€”â€� Then she fell back motionless on the pillows.

With a stride, the doctor reached the bed, and seizing her arms worked
them energetically, applying what I knew to be artificial respiration.
He issued a few short sharp orders to the servants. An imperious wave
of his hand drove us all to the door. We watched him, fascinated,
though I think we all knew in our hearts that it was too late, and that
nothing could be done now. I could see by the expression on his face
that he himself had little hope.

Finally he abandoned his task, shaking his head gravely. At that
moment, we heard footsteps outside, and Dr. Wilkins, Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
own doctor, a portly, fussy little man, came bustling in.

In a few words Dr. Bauerstein explained how he had happened to be
passing the lodge gates as the car came out, and had run up to the
house as fast as he could, whilst the car went on to fetch Dr. Wilkins.
With a faint gesture of the hand, he indicated the figure on the bed.

â€œVeâ€”ry sad. Veâ€”ry sad,â€� murmured Dr. Wilkins. â€œPoor dear lady. Always
did far too muchâ€”far too muchâ€”against my advice. I warned her. Her
heart was far from strong. â€˜Take it easy,â€™ I said to her,
â€˜Takeâ€”itâ€”easyâ€™. But noâ€”her zeal for good works was too great. Nature
rebelled. Naâ€”tureâ€”reâ€”belled.â€�

Dr. Bauerstein, I noticed, was watching the local doctor narrowly. He
still kept his eyes fixed on him as he spoke.

â€œThe convulsions were of a peculiar violence, Dr. Wilkins. I am sorry
you were not here in time to witness them. They were quiteâ€”tetanic in
character.â€�

â€œAh!â€� said Dr. Wilkins wisely.

â€œI should like to speak to you in private,â€� said Dr. Bauerstein. He
turned to John. â€œYou do not object?â€�

â€œCertainly not.â€�

We all trooped out into the corridor, leaving the two doctors alone,
and I heard the key turned in the lock behind us.

We went slowly down the stairs. I was violently excited. I have a
certain talent for deduction, and Dr. Bauersteinâ€™s manner had started a
flock of wild surmises in my mind. Mary Cavendish laid her hand upon my
arm.

â€œWhat is it? Why did Dr. Bauerstein seem soâ€”peculiar?â€�

I looked at her.

â€œDo you know what I think?â€�

â€œWhat?â€�

â€œListen!â€� I looked round, the others were out of earshot. I lowered my
voice to a whisper. â€œI believe she has been poisoned! Iâ€™m certain Dr.
Bauerstein suspects it.â€�

â€œ_What?_â€� She shrank against the wall, the pupils of her eyes dilating
wildly. Then, with a sudden cry that startled me, she cried out: â€œNo,
noâ€”not thatâ€”not that!â€� And breaking from me, fled up the stairs. I
followed her, afraid that she was going to faint. I found her leaning
against the bannisters, deadly pale. She waved me away impatiently.

â€œNo, noâ€”leave me. Iâ€™d rather be alone. Let me just be quiet for a
minute or two. Go down to the others.â€�

I obeyed her reluctantly. John and Lawrence were in the dining-room. I
joined them. We were all silent, but I suppose I voiced the thoughts of
us all when I at last broke it by saying:

â€œWhere is Mr. Inglethorp?â€�

John shook his head.

â€œHeâ€™s not in the house.â€�

Our eyes met. Where _was_ Alfred Inglethorp? His absence was strange
and inexplicable. I remembered Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s dying words. What lay
beneath them? What more could she have told us, if she had had time?

At last we heard the doctors descending the stairs. Dr. Wilkins was
looking important and excited, and trying to conceal an inward
exultation under a manner of decorous calm. Dr. Bauerstein remained in
the background, his grave bearded face unchanged. Dr. Wilkins was the
spokesman for the two. He addressed himself to John:

â€œMr. Cavendish, I should like your consent to a post-mortem.â€�

â€œIs that necessary?â€� asked John gravely. A spasm of pain crossed his
face.

â€œAbsolutely,â€� said Dr. Bauerstein.

â€œYou mean by thatâ€”â€”?â€�

â€œThat neither Dr. Wilkins nor myself could give a death certificate
under the circumstances.â€�

John bent his head.

â€œIn that case, I have no alternative but to agree.â€�

â€œThank you,â€� said Dr. Wilkins briskly. â€œWe propose that it should take
place to-morrow nightâ€”or rather to-night.â€� And he glanced at the
daylight. â€œUnder the circumstances, I am afraid an inquest can hardly
be avoidedâ€”these formalities are necessary, but I beg that you wonâ€™t
distress yourselves.â€�

There was a pause, and then Dr. Bauerstein drew two keys from his
pocket, and handed them to John.

â€œThese are the keys of the two rooms. I have locked them and, in my
opinion, they would be better kept locked for the present.â€�

The doctors then departed.

I had been turning over an idea in my head, and I felt that the moment
had now come to broach it. Yet I was a little chary of doing so. John,
I knew, had a horror of any kind of publicity, and was an easygoing
optimist, who preferred never to meet trouble half-way. It might be
difficult to convince him of the soundness of my plan. Lawrence, on the
other hand, being less conventional, and having more imagination, I
felt I might count upon as an ally. There was no doubt that the moment
had come for me to take the lead.

â€œJohn,â€� I said, â€œI am going to ask you something.â€�

â€œWell?â€�

â€œYou remember my speaking of my friend Poirot? The Belgian who is here?
He has been a most famous detective.â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œI want you to let me call him inâ€”to investigate this matter.â€�

â€œWhatâ€”now? Before the post-mortem?â€�

â€œYes, time is an advantage ifâ€”ifâ€”there has been foul play.â€�

â€œRubbish!â€� cried Lawrence angrily. â€œIn my opinion the whole thing is a
mareâ€™s nest of Bauersteinâ€™s! Wilkins hadnâ€™t an idea of such a thing,
until Bauerstein put it into his head. But, like all specialists,
Bauersteinâ€™s got a bee in his bonnet. Poisons are his hobby, so of
course he sees them everywhere.â€�

I confess that I was surprised by Lawrenceâ€™s attitude. He was so seldom
vehement about anything.

John hesitated.

â€œI canâ€™t feel as you do, Lawrence,â€� he said at last. â€œIâ€™m inclined to
give Hastings a free hand, though I should prefer to wait a bit. We
donâ€™t want any unnecessary scandal.â€�

â€œNo, no,â€� I cried eagerly, â€œyou need have no fear of that. Poirot is
discretion itself.â€�

â€œVery well, then, have it your own way. I leave it in your hands.
Though, if it is as we suspect, it seems a clear enough case. God
forgive me if I am wronging him!â€�

I looked at my watch. It was six oâ€™clock. I determined to lose no time.

Five minutesâ€™ delay, however, I allowed myself. I spent it in
ransacking the library until I discovered a medical book which gave a
description of strychnine poisoning.






CHAPTER IV. POIROT INVESTIGATES

The house which the Belgians occupied in the village was quite close to
the park gates. One could save time by taking a narrow path through the
long grass, which cut off the detours of the winding drive. So I,
accordingly, went that way. I had nearly reached the lodge, when my
attention was arrested by the running figure of a man approaching me.
It was Mr. Inglethorp. Where had he been? How did he intend to explain
his absence?

He accosted me eagerly.

â€œMy God! This is terrible! My poor wife! I have only just heard.â€�

â€œWhere have you been?â€� I asked.

â€œDenby kept me late last night. It was one oâ€™clock before weâ€™d
finished. Then I found that Iâ€™d forgotten the latch-key after all. I
didnâ€™t want to arouse the household, so Denby gave me a bed.â€�

â€œHow did you hear the news?â€� I asked.

â€œWilkins knocked Denby up to tell him. My poor Emily! She was so
self-sacrificingâ€”such a noble character. She over-taxed her strength.â€�

A wave of revulsion swept over me. What a consummate hypocrite the man
was!

â€œI must hurry on,â€� I said, thankful that he did not ask me whither I
was bound.

In a few minutes I was knocking at the door of Leastways Cottage.

Getting no answer, I repeated my summons impatiently. A window above me
was cautiously opened, and Poirot himself looked out.

He gave an exclamation of surprise at seeing me. In a few brief words,
I explained the tragedy that had occurred, and that I wanted his help.

â€œWait, my friend, I will let you in, and you shall recount to me the
affair whilst I dress.â€�

In a few moments he had unbarred the door, and I followed him up to his
room. There he installed me in a chair, and I related the whole story,
keeping back nothing, and omitting no circumstance, however
insignificant, whilst he himself made a careful and deliberate toilet.

I told him of my awakening, of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s dying words, of her
husbandâ€™s absence, of the quarrel the day before, of the scrap of
conversation between Mary and her mother-in-law that I had overheard,
of the former quarrel between Mrs. Inglethorp and Evelyn Howard, and of
the latterâ€™s innuendoes.

I was hardly as clear as I could wish. I repeated myself several times,
and occasionally had to go back to some detail that I had forgotten.
Poirot smiled kindly on me.

â€œThe mind is confused? Is it not so? Take time, _mon ami_. You are
agitated; you are excitedâ€”it is but natural. Presently, when we are
calmer, we will arrange the facts, neatly, each in his proper place. We
will examineâ€”and reject. Those of importance we will put on one side;
those of no importance, pouf!â€�â€”he screwed up his cherub-like face, and
puffed comically enoughâ€”â€œblow them away!â€�

â€œThatâ€™s all very well,â€� I objected, â€œbut how are you going to decide
what is important, and what isnâ€™t? That always seems the difficulty to
me.â€�

Poirot shook his head energetically. He was now arranging his moustache
with exquisite care.

â€œNot so. _Voyons!_ One fact leads to anotherâ€”so we continue. Does the
next fit in with that? _A merveille!_ Good! We can proceed. This next
little factâ€”no! Ah, that is curious! There is something missingâ€”a link
in the chain that is not there. We examine. We search. And that little
curious fact, that possibly paltry little detail that will not tally,
we put it here!â€� He made an extravagant gesture with his hand. â€œIt is
significant! It is tremendous!â€�

â€œYâ€”esâ€”â€”â€�

â€œAh!â€� Poirot shook his forefinger so fiercely at me that I quailed
before it. â€œBeware! Peril to the detective who says: â€˜It is so smallâ€”it
does not matter. It will not agree. I will forget it.â€™ That way lies
confusion! Everything matters.â€�

â€œI know. You always told me that. Thatâ€™s why I have gone into all the
details of this thing whether they seemed to me relevant or not.â€�

â€œAnd I am pleased with you. You have a good memory, and you have given
me the facts faithfully. Of the order in which you present them, I say
nothingâ€”truly, it is deplorable! But I make allowancesâ€”you are upset.
To that I attribute the circumstance that you have omitted one fact of
paramount importance.â€�

â€œWhat is that?â€� I asked.

â€œYou have not told me if Mrs. Inglethorp ate well last night.â€�

I stared at him. Surely the war had affected the little manâ€™s brain. He
was carefully engaged in brushing his coat before putting it on, and
seemed wholly engrossed in the task.

â€œI donâ€™t remember,â€� I said. â€œAnd, anyway, I donâ€™t seeâ€”â€”â€�

â€œYou do not see? But it is of the first importance.â€�

â€œI canâ€™t see why,â€� I said, rather nettled. â€œAs far as I can remember,
she didnâ€™t eat much. She was obviously upset, and it had taken her
appetite away. That was only natural.â€�

â€œYes,â€� said Poirot thoughtfully, â€œit was only natural.â€�

He opened a drawer, and took out a small despatch-case, then turned to
me.

â€œNow I am ready. We will proceed to the chÃ¢teau, and study matters on
the spot. Excuse me, _mon ami_, you dressed in haste, and your tie is
on one side. Permit me.â€� With a deft gesture, he rearranged it.

â€œ_Ã‡a y est!_ Now, shall we start?â€�

We hurried up the village, and turned in at the lodge gates. Poirot
stopped for a moment, and gazed sorrowfully over the beautiful expanse
of park, still glittering with morning dew.

â€œSo beautiful, so beautiful, and yet, the poor family, plunged in
sorrow, prostrated with grief.â€�

He looked at me keenly as he spoke, and I was aware that I reddened
under his prolonged gaze.

Was the family prostrated by grief? Was the sorrow at Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
death so great? I realized that there was an emotional lack in the
atmosphere. The dead woman had not the gift of commanding love. Her
death was a shock and a distress, but she would not be passionately
regretted.

Poirot seemed to follow my thoughts. He nodded his head gravely.

â€œNo, you are right,â€� he said, â€œit is not as though there was a blood
tie. She has been kind and generous to these Cavendishes, but she was
not their own mother. Blood tellsâ€”always remember thatâ€”blood tells.â€�

â€œPoirot,â€� I said, â€œI wish you would tell me why you wanted to know if
Mrs. Inglethorp ate well last night? I have been turning it over in my
mind, but I canâ€™t see how it has anything to do with the matter?â€�

He was silent for a minute or two as we walked along, but finally he
said:

â€œI do not mind telling youâ€”though, as you know, it is not my habit to
explain until the end is reached. The present contention is that Mrs.
Inglethorp died of strychnine poisoning, presumably administered in her
coffee.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œWell, what time was the coffee served?â€�

â€œAbout eight oâ€™clock.â€�

â€œTherefore she drank it between then and half-past eightâ€”certainly not
much later. Well, strychnine is a fairly rapid poison. Its effects
would be felt very soon, probably in about an hour. Yet, in Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s case, the symptoms do not manifest themselves until five
oâ€™clock the next morning: nine hours! But a heavy meal, taken at about
the same time as the poison, might retard its effects, though hardly to
that extent. Still, it is a possibility to be taken into account. But,
according to you, she ate very little for supper, and yet the symptoms
do not develop until early the next morning! Now that is a curious
circumstance, my friend. Something may arise at the autopsy to explain
it. In the meantime, remember it.â€�

As we neared the house, John came out and met us. His face looked weary
and haggard.

â€œThis is a very dreadful business, Monsieur Poirot,â€� he said. â€œHastings
has explained to you that we are anxious for no publicity?â€�

â€œI comprehend perfectly.â€�

â€œYou see, it is only suspicion so far. We have nothing to go upon.â€�

â€œPrecisely. It is a matter of precaution only.â€�

John turned to me, taking out his cigarette-case, and lighting a
cigarette as he did so.

â€œYou know that fellow Inglethorp is back?â€�

â€œYes. I met him.â€�

John flung the match into an adjacent flower bed, a proceeding which
was too much for Poirotâ€™s feelings. He retrieved it, and buried it
neatly.

â€œItâ€™s jolly difficult to know how to treat him.â€�

â€œThat difficulty will not exist long,â€� pronounced Poirot quietly.

John looked puzzled, not quite understanding the portent of this
cryptic saying. He handed the two keys which Dr. Bauerstein had given
him to me.

â€œShow Monsieur Poirot everything he wants to see.â€�

â€œThe rooms are locked?â€� asked Poirot.

â€œDr. Bauerstein considered it advisable.â€�

Poirot nodded thoughtfully.

â€œThen he is very sure. Well, that simplifies matters for us.â€�

We went up together to the room of the tragedy. For convenience I
append a plan of the room and the principal articles of furniture in
it.




       02



Poirot locked the door on the inside, and proceeded to a minute
inspection of the room. He darted from one object to the other with the
agility of a grasshopper. I remained by the door, fearing to obliterate
any clues. Poirot, however, did not seem grateful to me for my
forbearance.

â€œWhat have you, my friend,â€� he cried, â€œthat you remain there likeâ€”how
do you say it?â€”ah, yes, the stuck pig?â€�

I explained that I was afraid of obliterating any foot-marks.

â€œFoot-marks? But what an idea! There has already been practically an
army in the room! What foot-marks are we likely to find? No, come here
and aid me in my search. I will put down my little case until I need
it.â€�

He did so, on the round table by the window, but it was an ill-advised
proceeding; for, the top of it being loose, it tilted up, and
precipitated the despatch-case on the floor.

â€œ_Eh voilÃ  une table!_â€� cried Poirot. â€œAh, my friend, one may live in a
big house and yet have no comfort.â€�

After which piece of moralizing, he resumed his search.

A small purple despatch-case, with a key in the lock, on the
writing-table, engaged his attention for some time. He took out the key
from the lock, and passed it to me to inspect. I saw nothing peculiar,
however. It was an ordinary key of the Yale type, with a bit of twisted
wire through the handle.

Next, he examined the framework of the door we had broken in, assuring
himself that the bolt had really been shot. Then he went to the door
opposite leading into Cynthiaâ€™s room. That door was also bolted, as I
had stated. However, he went to the length of unbolting it, and opening
and shutting it several times; this he did with the utmost precaution
against making any noise. Suddenly something in the bolt itself seemed
to rivet his attention. He examined it carefully, and then, nimbly
whipping out a pair of small forceps from his case, he drew out some
minute particle which he carefully sealed up in a tiny envelope.

On the chest of drawers there was a tray with a spirit lamp and a small
saucepan on it. A small quantity of a dark fluid remained in the
saucepan, and an empty cup and saucer that had been drunk out of stood
near it.

I wondered how I could have been so unobservant as to overlook this.
Here was a clue worth having. Poirot delicately dipped his finger into
liquid, and tasted it gingerly. He made a grimace.

â€œCocoaâ€”withâ€”I thinkâ€”rum in it.â€�

He passed on to the debris on the floor, where the table by the bed had
been overturned. A reading-lamp, some books, matches, a bunch of keys,
and the crushed fragments of a coffee-cup lay scattered about.

â€œAh, this is curious,â€� said Poirot.

â€œI must confess that I see nothing particularly curious about it.â€�

â€œYou do not? Observe the lampâ€”the chimney is broken in two places; they
lie there as they fell. But see, the coffee-cup is absolutely smashed
to powder.â€�

â€œWell,â€� I said wearily, â€œI suppose someone must have stepped on it.â€�

â€œExactly,â€� said Poirot, in an odd voice. â€œSomeone stepped on it.â€�

He rose from his knees, and walked slowly across to the mantelpiece,
where he stood abstractedly fingering the ornaments, and straightening
themâ€”a trick of his when he was agitated.

â€œ_Mon ami_,â€� he said, turning to me, â€œsomebody stepped on that cup,
grinding it to powder, and the reason they did so was either because it
contained strychnine orâ€”which is far more seriousâ€”because it did not
contain strychnine!â€�

I made no reply. I was bewildered, but I knew that it was no good
asking him to explain. In a moment or two he roused himself, and went
on with his investigations. He picked up the bunch of keys from the
floor, and twirling them round in his fingers finally selected one,
very bright and shining, which he tried in the lock of the purple
despatch-case. It fitted, and he opened the box, but after a momentâ€™s
hesitation, closed and relocked it, and slipped the bunch of keys, as
well as the key that had originally stood in the lock, into his own
pocket.

â€œI have no authority to go through these papers. But it should be
doneâ€”at once!â€�

He then made a very careful examination of the drawers of the
wash-stand. Crossing the room to the left-hand window, a round stain,
hardly visible on the dark brown carpet, seemed to interest him
particularly. He went down on his knees, examining it minutelyâ€”even
going so far as to smell it.

Finally, he poured a few drops of the cocoa into a test tube, sealing
it up carefully. His next proceeding was to take out a little notebook.

â€œWe have found in this room,â€� he said, writing busily, â€œsix points of
interest. Shall I enumerate them, or will you?â€�

â€œOh, you,â€� I replied hastily.

â€œVery well, then. One, a coffee-cup that has been ground into powder;
two, a despatch-case with a key in the lock; three, a stain on the
floor.â€�

â€œThat may have been done some time ago,â€� I interrupted.

â€œNo, for it is still perceptibly damp and smells of coffee. Four, a
fragment of some dark green fabricâ€”only a thread or two, but
recognizable.â€�

â€œAh!â€� I cried. â€œThat was what you sealed up in the envelope.â€�

â€œYes. It may turn out to be a piece of one of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s own
dresses, and quite unimportant. We shall see. Five, _this_!â€� With a
dramatic gesture, he pointed to a large splash of candle grease on the
floor by the writing-table. â€œIt must have been done since yesterday,
otherwise a good housemaid would have at once removed it with
blotting-paper and a hot iron. One of my best hats onceâ€”but that is not
to the point.â€�

â€œIt was very likely done last night. We were very agitated. Or perhaps
Mrs. Inglethorp herself dropped her candle.â€�

â€œYou brought only one candle into the room?â€�

â€œYes. Lawrence Cavendish was carrying it. But he was very upset. He
seemed to see something over hereâ€�â€”I indicated the mantelpieceâ€”â€œthat
absolutely paralysed him.â€�

â€œThat is interesting,â€� said Poirot quickly. â€œYes, it is suggestiveâ€�â€”his
eye sweeping the whole length of the wallâ€”â€œbut it was not his candle
that made this great patch, for you perceive that this is white grease;
whereas Monsieur Lawrenceâ€™s candle, which is still on the
dressing-table, is pink. On the other hand, Mrs. Inglethorp had no
candlestick in the room, only a reading-lamp.â€�

â€œThen,â€� I said, â€œwhat do you deduce?â€�

To which my friend only made a rather irritating reply, urging me to
use my own natural faculties.

â€œAnd the sixth point?â€� I asked. â€œI suppose it is the sample of cocoa.â€�

â€œNo,â€� said Poirot thoughtfully. â€œI might have included that in the six,
but I did not. No, the sixth point I will keep to myself for the
present.â€�

He looked quickly round the room. â€œThere is nothing more to be done
here, I think, unlessâ€�â€”he stared earnestly and long at the dead ashes
in the grate. â€œThe fire burnsâ€”and it destroys. But by chanceâ€”there
might beâ€”let us see!â€�

Deftly, on hands and knees, he began to sort the ashes from the grate
into the fender, handling them with the greatest caution. Suddenly, he
gave a faint exclamation.

â€œThe forceps, Hastings!â€�

I quickly handed them to him, and with skill he extracted a small piece
of half charred paper.

â€œThere, _mon ami!_â€� he cried. â€œWhat do you think of that?â€�

I scrutinized the fragment. This is an exact reproduction of it:â€”




       03


I was puzzled. It was unusually thick, quite unlike ordinary notepaper.
Suddenly an idea struck me.

â€œPoirot!â€� I cried. â€œThis is a fragment of a will!â€�

â€œExactly.â€�

I looked up at him sharply.

â€œYou are not surprised?â€�

â€œNo,â€� he said gravely, â€œI expected it.â€�

I relinquished the piece of paper, and watched him put it away in his
case, with the same methodical care that he bestowed on everything. My
brain was in a whirl. What was this complication of a will? Who had
destroyed it? The person who had left the candle grease on the floor?
Obviously. But how had anyone gained admission? All the doors had been
bolted on the inside.

â€œNow, my friend,â€� said Poirot briskly, â€œwe will go. I should like to
ask a few questions of the parlourmaidâ€”Dorcas, her name is, is it not?â€�

We passed through Alfred Inglethorpâ€™s room, and Poirot delayed long
enough to make a brief but fairly comprehensive examination of it. We
went out through that door, locking both it and that of Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s room as before.

I took him down to the boudoir which he had expressed a wish to see,
and went myself in search of Dorcas.

When I returned with her, however, the boudoir was empty.

â€œPoirot,â€� I cried, â€œwhere are you?â€�

â€œI am here, my friend.â€�

He had stepped outside the French window, and was standing, apparently
lost in admiration, before the various shaped flower beds.

â€œAdmirable!â€� he murmured. â€œAdmirable! What symmetry! Observe that
crescent; and those diamondsâ€”their neatness rejoices the eye. The
spacing of the plants, also, is perfect. It has been recently done; is
it not so?â€�

â€œYes, I believe they were at it yesterday afternoon. But come inâ€”Dorcas
is here.â€�

â€œ_Eh bien, eh bien!_ Do not grudge me a momentâ€™s satisfaction of the
eye.â€�

â€œYes, but this affair is more important.â€�

â€œAnd how do you know that these fine begonias are not of equal
importance?â€�

I shrugged my shoulders. There was really no arguing with him if he
chose to take that line.

â€œYou do not agree? But such things have been. Well, we will come in and
interview the brave Dorcas.â€�

Dorcas was standing in the boudoir, her hands folded in front of her,
and her grey hair rose in stiff waves under her white cap. She was the
very model and picture of a good old-fashioned servant.

In her attitude towards Poirot, she was inclined to be suspicious, but
he soon broke down her defences. He drew forward a chair.

â€œPray be seated, mademoiselle.â€�

â€œThank you, sir.â€�

â€œYou have been with your mistress many years, is it not so?â€�

â€œTen years, sir.â€�

â€œThat is a long time, and very faithful service. You were much attached
to her, were you not?â€�

â€œShe was a very good mistress to me, sir.â€�

â€œThen you will not object to answering a few questions. I put them to
you with Mr. Cavendishâ€™s full approval.â€�

â€œOh, certainly, sir.â€�

â€œThen I will begin by asking you about the events of yesterday
afternoon. Your mistress had a quarrel?â€�

â€œYes, sir. But I donâ€™t know that I oughtâ€”â€”â€� Dorcas hesitated.

Poirot looked at her keenly.

â€œMy good Dorcas, it is necessary that I should know every detail of
that quarrel as fully as possible. Do not think that you are betraying
your mistressâ€™s secrets. Your mistress lies dead, and it is necessary
that we should know allâ€”if we are to avenge her. Nothing can bring her
back to life, but we do hope, if there has been foul play, to bring the
murderer to justice.â€�

â€œAmen to that,â€� said Dorcas fiercely. â€œAnd, naming no names, thereâ€™s
_one_ in this house that none of us could ever abide! And an ill day it
was when first _he_ darkened the threshold.â€�

Poirot waited for her indignation to subside, and then, resuming his
business-like tone, he asked:

â€œNow, as to this quarrel? What is the first you heard of it?â€�

â€œWell, sir, I happened to be going along the hall outside yesterdayâ€”â€”â€�

â€œWhat time was that?â€�

â€œI couldnâ€™t say exactly, sir, but it wasnâ€™t tea-time by a long way.
Perhaps four oâ€™clockâ€”or it may have been a bit later. Well, sir, as I
said, I happened to be passing along, when I heard voices very loud and
angry in here. I didnâ€™t exactly mean to listen, butâ€”well, there it is.
I stopped. The door was shut, but the mistress was speaking very sharp
and clear, and I heard what she said quite plainly. â€˜You have lied to
me, and deceived me,â€™ she said. I didnâ€™t hear what Mr. Inglethorp
replied. He spoke a good bit lower than she didâ€”but she answered: â€˜How
dare you? I have kept you and clothed you and fed you! You owe
everything to me! And this is how you repay me! By bringing disgrace
upon our name!â€™ Again I didnâ€™t hear what he said, but she went on:
â€˜Nothing that you can say will make any difference. I see my duty
clearly. My mind is made up. You need not think that any fear of
publicity, or scandal between husband and wife will deter me.â€™ Then I
thought I heard them coming out, so I went off quickly.â€�

â€œYou are sure it was Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s voice you heard?â€�

â€œOh, yes, sir, whose elseâ€™s could it be?â€�

â€œWell, what happened next?â€�

â€œLater, I came back to the hall; but it was all quiet. At five oâ€™clock,
Mrs. Inglethorp rang the bell and told me to bring her a cup of
teaâ€”nothing to eatâ€”to the boudoir. She was looking dreadfulâ€”so white
and upset. â€˜Dorcas,â€™ she says, â€˜Iâ€™ve had a great shock.â€™ â€˜Iâ€™m sorry for
that, mâ€™m,â€™ I says. â€˜Youâ€™ll feel better after a nice hot cup of tea,
mâ€™m.â€™ She had something in her hand. I donâ€™t know if it was a letter,
or just a piece of paper, but it had writing on it, and she kept
staring at it, almost as if she couldnâ€™t believe what was written
there. She whispered to herself, as though she had forgotten I was
there: â€˜These few wordsâ€”and everythingâ€™s changed.â€™ And then she says to
me: â€˜Never trust a man, Dorcas, theyâ€™re not worth it!â€™ I hurried off,
and got her a good strong cup of tea, and she thanked me, and said
sheâ€™d feel better when sheâ€™d drunk it. â€˜I donâ€™t know what to do,â€™ she
says. â€˜Scandal between husband and wife is a dreadful thing, Dorcas.
Iâ€™d rather hush it up if I could.â€™ Mrs. Cavendish came in just then, so
she didnâ€™t say any more.â€�

â€œShe still had the letter, or whatever it was, in her hand?â€�



â€œYes, sir.â€�

â€œWhat would she be likely to do with it afterwards?â€�

â€œWell, I donâ€™t know, sir, I expect she would lock it up in that purple
case of hers.â€�

â€œIs that where she usually kept important papers?â€�

â€œYes, sir. She brought it down with her every morning, and took it up
every night.â€�

â€œWhen did she lose the key of it?â€�

â€œShe missed it yesterday at lunch-time, sir, and told me to look
carefully for it. She was very much put out about it.â€�

â€œBut she had a duplicate key?â€�

â€œOh, yes, sir.â€�

Dorcas was looking very curiously at him and, to tell the truth, so was
I. What was all this about a lost key? Poirot smiled.

â€œNever mind, Dorcas, it is my business to know things. Is this the key
that was lost?â€� He drew from his pocket the key that he had found in
the lock of the despatch-case upstairs.

Dorcasâ€™s eyes looked as though they would pop out of her head.

â€œThatâ€™s it, sir, right enough. But where did you find it? I looked
everywhere for it.â€�

â€œAh, but you see it was not in the same place yesterday as it was
to-day. Now, to pass to another subject, had your mistress a dark green
dress in her wardrobe?â€�

Dorcas was rather startled by the unexpected question.

â€œNo, sir.â€�

â€œAre you quite sure?â€�

â€œOh, yes, sir.â€�

â€œHas anyone else in the house got a green dress?â€�

Dorcas reflected.

â€œMiss Cynthia has a green evening dress.â€�

â€œLight or dark green?â€�

â€œA light green, sir; a sort of chiffon, they call it.â€�

â€œAh, that is not what I want. And nobody else has anything green?â€�

â€œNo, sirâ€”not that I know of.â€�

Poirotâ€™s face did not betray a trace of whether he was disappointed or
otherwise. He merely remarked:

â€œGood, we will leave that and pass on. Have you any reason to believe
that your mistress was likely to take a sleeping powder last night?â€�

â€œNot _last_ night, sir, I know she didnâ€™t.â€�

â€œWhy do you know so positively?â€�

â€œBecause the box was empty. She took the last one two days ago, and she
didnâ€™t have any more made up.â€�

â€œYou are quite sure of that?â€�

â€œPositive, sir.â€�

â€œThen that is cleared up! By the way, your mistress didnâ€™t ask you to
sign any paper yesterday?â€�

â€œTo sign a paper? No, sir.â€�

â€œWhen Mr. Hastings and Mr. Lawrence came in yesterday evening, they
found your mistress busy writing letters. I suppose you can give me no
idea to whom these letters were addressed?â€�

â€œIâ€™m afraid I couldnâ€™t, sir. I was out in the evening. Perhaps Annie
could tell you, though sheâ€™s a careless girl. Never cleared the
coffee-cups away last night. Thatâ€™s what happens when Iâ€™m not here to
look after things.â€�

Poirot lifted his hand.

â€œSince they have been left, Dorcas, leave them a little longer, I pray
you. I should like to examine them.â€�

â€œVery well, sir.â€�

â€œWhat time did you go out last evening?â€�

â€œAbout six oâ€™clock, sir.â€�

â€œThank you, Dorcas, that is all I have to ask you.â€� He rose and
strolled to the window. â€œI have been admiring these flower beds. How
many gardeners are employed here, by the way?â€�

â€œOnly three now, sir. Five, we had, before the war, when it was kept as
a gentlemanâ€™s place should be. I wish you could have seen it then, sir.
A fair sight it was. But now thereâ€™s only old Manning, and young
William, and a new-fashioned woman gardener in breeches and such-like.
Ah, these are dreadful times!â€�

â€œThe good times will come again, Dorcas. At least, we hope so. Now,
will you send Annie to me here?â€�

â€œYes, sir. Thank you, sir.â€�

â€œHow did you know that Mrs. Inglethorp took sleeping powders?â€� I asked,
in lively curiosity, as Dorcas left the room. â€œAnd about the lost key
and the duplicate?â€�

â€œOne thing at a time. As to the sleeping powders, I knew by this.â€� He
suddenly produced a small cardboard box, such as chemists use for
powders.

â€œWhere did you find it?â€�

â€œIn the wash-stand drawer in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s bedroom. It was Number
Six of my catalogue.â€�

â€œBut I suppose, as the last powder was taken two days ago, it is not of
much importance?â€�

â€œProbably not, but do you notice anything that strikes you as peculiar
about this box?â€�

I examined it closely.

â€œNo, I canâ€™t say that I do.â€�

â€œLook at the label.â€�

I read the label carefully: â€œâ€˜One powder to be taken at bedtime, if
required. Mrs. Inglethorp.â€™ No, I see nothing unusual.â€�

â€œNot the fact that there is no chemistâ€™s name?â€�

â€œAh!â€� I exclaimed. â€œTo be sure, that is odd!â€�

â€œHave you ever known a chemist to send out a box like that, without his
printed name?â€�

â€œNo, I canâ€™t say that I have.â€�

I was becoming quite excited, but Poirot damped my ardour by remarking:

â€œYet the explanation is quite simple. So do not intrigue yourself, my
friend.â€�

An audible creaking proclaimed the approach of Annie, so I had no time
to reply.

Annie was a fine, strapping girl, and was evidently labouring under
intense excitement, mingled with a certain ghoulish enjoyment of the
tragedy.

Poirot came to the point at once, with a business-like briskness.

â€œI sent for you, Annie, because I thought you might be able to tell me
something about the letters Mrs. Inglethorp wrote last night. How many
were there? And can you tell me any of the names and addresses?â€�

Annie considered.

â€œThere were four letters, sir. One was to Miss Howard, and one was to
Mr. Wells, the lawyer, and the other two I donâ€™t think I remember,
sirâ€”oh, yes, one was to Rossâ€™s, the caterers in Tadminster. The other
one, I donâ€™t remember.â€�

â€œThink,â€� urged Poirot.

Annie racked her brains in vain.

â€œIâ€™m sorry, sir, but itâ€™s clean gone. I donâ€™t think I can have noticed
it.â€�

â€œIt does not matter,â€� said Poirot, not betraying any sign of
disappointment. â€œNow I want to ask you about something else. There is a
saucepan in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room with some cocoa in it. Did she have
that every night?â€�

â€œYes, sir, it was put in her room every evening, and she warmed it up
in the nightâ€”whenever she fancied it.â€�

â€œWhat was it? Plain cocoa?â€�

â€œYes, sir, made with milk, with a teaspoonful of sugar, and two
teaspoonfuls of rum in it.â€�

â€œWho took it to her room?â€�

â€œI did, sir.â€�

â€œAlways?â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€�

â€œAt what time?â€�

â€œWhen I went to draw the curtains, as a rule, sir.â€�

â€œDid you bring it straight up from the kitchen then?â€�

â€œNo, sir, you see thereâ€™s not much room on the gas stove, so cook used
to make it early, before putting the vegetables on for supper. Then I
used to bring it up, and put it on the table by the swing door, and
take it into her room later.â€�

â€œThe swing door is in the left wing, is it not?â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€�

â€œAnd the table, is it on this side of the door, or on the
fartherâ€”servantsâ€™ side?â€�

â€œItâ€™s this side, sir.â€�

â€œWhat time did you bring it up last night?â€�

â€œAbout quarter-past seven, I should say, sir.â€�

â€œAnd when did you take it into Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room?â€�

â€œWhen I went to shut up, sir. About eight oâ€™clock. Mrs. Inglethorp came
up to bed before Iâ€™d finished.â€�

â€œThen, between seven-fifteen and eight oâ€™clock, the cocoa was standing
on the table in the left wing?â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€� Annie had been growing redder and redder in the face, and
now she blurted out unexpectedly:

â€œAnd if there _was_ salt in it, sir, it wasnâ€™t me. I never took the
salt near it.â€�

â€œWhat makes you think there was salt in it?â€� asked Poirot.

â€œSeeing it on the tray, sir.â€�

â€œYou saw some salt on the tray?â€�

â€œYes. Coarse kitchen salt, it looked. I never noticed it when I took
the tray up, but when I came to take it into the mistressâ€™s room I saw
it at once, and I suppose I ought to have taken it down again, and
asked cook to make some fresh. But I was in a hurry, because Dorcas was
out, and I thought maybe the cocoa itself was all right, and the salt
had only gone on the tray. So I dusted it off with my apron, and took
it in.â€�

I had the utmost difficulty in controlling my excitement. Unknown to
herself, Annie had provided us with an important piece of evidence. How
she would have gaped if she had realized that her â€œcoarse kitchen saltâ€�
was strychnine, one of the most deadly poisons known to mankind. I
marvelled at Poirotâ€™s calm. His self-control was astonishing. I awaited
his next question with impatience, but it disappointed me.

â€œWhen you went into Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room, was the door leading into
Miss Cynthiaâ€™s room bolted?â€�

â€œOh! Yes, sir; it always was. It had never been opened.â€�

â€œAnd the door into Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s room? Did you notice if that was
bolted too?â€�

Annie hesitated.

â€œI couldnâ€™t rightly say, sir; it was shut but I couldnâ€™t say whether it
was bolted or not.â€�

â€œWhen you finally left the room, did Mrs. Inglethorp bolt the door
after you?â€�

â€œNo, sir, not then, but I expect she did later. She usually did lock it
at night. The door into the passage, that is.â€�

â€œDid you notice any candle grease on the floor when you did the room
yesterday?â€�

â€œCandle grease? Oh, no, sir. Mrs. Inglethorp didnâ€™t have a candle, only
a reading-lamp.â€�

â€œThen, if there had been a large patch of candle grease on the floor,
you think you would have been sure to have seen it?â€�

â€œYes, sir, and I would have taken it out with a piece of blotting-paper
and a hot iron.â€�

Then Poirot repeated the question he had put to Dorcas:

â€œDid your mistress ever have a green dress?â€�

â€œNo, sir.â€�

â€œNor a mantle, nor a cape, nor aâ€”how do you call it?â€”a sports coat?â€�

â€œNot green, sir.â€�

â€œNor anyone else in the house?â€�

Annie reflected.

â€œNo, sir.â€�

â€œYou are sure of that?â€�

â€œQuite sure.â€�

â€œ_Bien!_ That is all I want to know. Thank you very much.â€�

With a nervous giggle, Annie took herself creakingly out of the room.
My pent-up excitement burst forth.

â€œPoirot,â€� I cried, â€œI congratulate you! This is a great discovery.â€�

â€œWhat is a great discovery?â€�

â€œWhy, that it was the cocoa and not the coffee that was poisoned. That
explains everything! Of course it did not take effect until the early
morning, since the cocoa was only drunk in the middle of the night.â€�

â€œSo you think that the cocoaâ€”mark well what I say, Hastings, the
_cocoa_â€”contained strychnine?â€�

â€œOf course! That salt on the tray, what else could it have been?â€�

â€œIt might have been salt,â€� replied Poirot placidly.

I shrugged my shoulders. If he was going to take the matter that way,
it was no good arguing with him. The idea crossed my mind, not for the
first time, that poor old Poirot was growing old. Privately I thought
it lucky that he had associated with him someone of a more receptive
type of mind.

Poirot was surveying me with quietly twinkling eyes.

â€œYou are not pleased with me, _mon ami?_â€�

â€œMy dear Poirot,â€� I said coldly, â€œit is not for me to dictate to you.
You have a right to your own opinion, just as I have to mine.â€�

â€œA most admirable sentiment,â€� remarked Poirot, rising briskly to his
feet. â€œNow I have finished with this room. By the way, whose is the
smaller desk in the corner?â€�

â€œMr. Inglethorpâ€™s.â€�

â€œAh!â€� He tried the roll top tentatively. â€œLocked. But perhaps one of
Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s keys would open it.â€� He tried several, twisting and
turning them with a practiced hand, and finally uttering an ejaculation
of satisfaction. â€œ_VoilÃ !_ It is not the key, but it will open it at a
pinch.â€� He slid back the roll top, and ran a rapid eye over the neatly
filed papers. To my surprise, he did not examine them, merely remarking
approvingly as he relocked the desk: â€œDecidedly, he is a man of method,
this Mr. Inglethorp!â€�

A â€œman of methodâ€� was, in Poirotâ€™s estimation, the highest praise that
could be bestowed on any individual.

I felt that my friend was not what he had been as he rambled on
disconnectedly:

â€œThere were no stamps in his desk, but there might have been, eh, _mon
ami?_ There might have been? Yesâ€�â€”his eyes wandered round the
roomâ€”â€œthis boudoir has nothing more to tell us. It did not yield much.
Only this.â€�

He pulled a crumpled envelope out of his pocket, and tossed it over to
me. It was rather a curious document. A plain, dirty looking old
envelope with a few words scrawled across it, apparently at random. The
following is a facsimile of it.




       04








CHAPTER V. â€œIT ISNâ€™T STRYCHNINE, IS IT?â€�

â€œWhere did you find this?â€� I asked Poirot, in lively curiosity.

â€œIn the waste-paper basket. You recognise the handwriting?â€�

â€œYes, it is Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s. But what does it mean?â€�

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

â€œI cannot sayâ€”but it is suggestive.â€�

A wild idea flashed across me. Was it possible that Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
mind was deranged? Had she some fantastic idea of demoniacal
possession? And, if that were so, was it not also possible that she
might have taken her own life?

I was about to expound these theories to Poirot, when his own words
distracted me.

â€œCome,â€� he said, â€œnow to examine the coffee-cups!â€�

â€œMy dear Poirot! What on earth is the good of that, now that we know
about the cocoa?â€�

â€œOh, _lÃ  lÃ !_ That miserable cocoa!â€� cried Poirot flippantly.

He laughed with apparent enjoyment, raising his arms to heaven in mock
despair, in what I could not but consider the worst possible taste.

â€œAnd, anyway,â€� I said, with increasing coldness, â€œas Mrs. Inglethorp
took her coffee upstairs with her, I do not see what you expect to
find, unless you consider it likely that we shall discover a packet of
strychnine on the coffee tray!â€�

Poirot was sobered at once.

â€œCome, come, my friend,â€� he said, slipping his arms through mine. â€œ_Ne
vous fÃ¢chez pas!_ Allow me to interest myself in my coffee-cups, and I
will respect your cocoa. There! Is it a bargain?â€�

He was so quaintly humorous that I was forced to laugh; and we went
together to the drawing-room, where the coffee-cups and tray remained
undisturbed as we had left them.

Poirot made me recapitulate the scene of the night before, listening
very carefully, and verifying the position of the various cups.

â€œSo Mrs. Cavendish stood by the trayâ€”and poured out. Yes. Then she came
across to the window where you sat with Mademoiselle Cynthia. Yes. Here
are the three cups. And the cup on the mantelpiece, half drunk, that
would be Mr. Lawrence Cavendishâ€™s. And the one on the tray?â€�

â€œJohn Cavendishâ€™s. I saw him put it down there.â€�

â€œGood. One, two, three, four, fiveâ€”but where, then, is the cup of Mr.
Inglethorp?â€�

â€œHe does not take coffee.â€�

â€œThen all are accounted for. One moment, my friend.â€�

With infinite care, he took a drop or two from the grounds in each cup,
sealing them up in separate test tubes, tasting each in turn as he did
so. His physiognomy underwent a curious change. An expression gathered
there that I can only describe as half puzzled, and half relieved.

â€œ_Bien!_â€� he said at last. â€œIt is evident! I had an ideaâ€”but clearly I
was mistaken. Yes, altogether I was mistaken. Yet it is strange. But no
matter!â€�

And, with a characteristic shrug, he dismissed whatever it was that was
worrying him from his mind. I could have told him from the beginning
that this obsession of his over the coffee was bound to end in a blind
alley, but I restrained my tongue. After all, though he was old, Poirot
had been a great man in his day.

â€œBreakfast is ready,â€� said John Cavendish, coming in from the hall.
â€œYou will breakfast with us, Monsieur Poirot?â€�

Poirot acquiesced. I observed John. Already he was almost restored to
his normal self. The shock of the events of the last night had upset
him temporarily, but his equable poise soon swung back to the normal.
He was a man of very little imagination, in sharp contrast with his
brother, who had, perhaps, too much.

Ever since the early hours of the morning, John had been hard at work,
sending telegramsâ€”one of the first had gone to Evelyn Howardâ€”writing
notices for the papers, and generally occupying himself with the
melancholy duties that a death entails.

â€œMay I ask how things are proceeding?â€� he said. â€œDo your investigations
point to my mother having died a natural deathâ€”orâ€”or must we prepare
ourselves for the worst?â€�

â€œI think, Mr. Cavendish,â€� said Poirot gravely, â€œthat you would do well
not to buoy yourself up with any false hopes. Can you tell me the views
of the other members of the family?â€�

â€œMy brother Lawrence is convinced that we are making a fuss over
nothing. He says that everything points to its being a simple case of
heart failure.â€�

â€œHe does, does he? That is very interestingâ€”very interesting,â€� murmured
Poirot softly. â€œAnd Mrs. Cavendish?â€�

A faint cloud passed over Johnâ€™s face.

â€œI have not the least idea what my wifeâ€™s views on the subject are.â€�

The answer brought a momentary stiffness in its train. John broke the
rather awkward silence by saying with a slight effort:

â€œI told you, didnâ€™t I, that Mr. Inglethorp has returned?â€�

Poirot bent his head.

â€œItâ€™s an awkward position for all of us. Of course one has to treat him
as usualâ€”but, hang it all, oneâ€™s gorge does rise at sitting down to eat
with a possible murderer!â€�

Poirot nodded sympathetically.

â€œI quite understand. It is a very difficult situation for you, Mr.
Cavendish. I would like to ask you one question. Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s
reason for not returning last night was, I believe, that he had
forgotten the latch-key. Is not that so?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œI suppose you are quite sure that the latch-key _was_ forgottenâ€”that
he did not take it after all?â€�

â€œI have no idea. I never thought of looking. We always keep it in the
hall drawer. Iâ€™ll go and see if itâ€™s there now.â€�

Poirot held up his hand with a faint smile.

â€œNo, no, Mr. Cavendish, it is too late now. I am certain that you would
find it. If Mr. Inglethorp did take it, he has had ample time to
replace it by now.â€�

â€œBut do you thinkâ€”â€”â€�

â€œI think nothing. If anyone had chanced to look this morning before his
return, and seen it there, it would have been a valuable point in his
favour. That is all.â€�

John looked perplexed.

â€œDo not worry,â€� said Poirot smoothly. â€œI assure you that you need not
let it trouble you. Since you are so kind, let us go and have some
breakfast.â€�

Everyone was assembled in the dining-room. Under the circumstances, we
were naturally not a cheerful party. The reaction after a shock is
always trying, and I think we were all suffering from it. Decorum and
good breeding naturally enjoined that our demeanour should be much as
usual, yet I could not help wondering if this self-control were really
a matter of great difficulty. There were no red eyes, no signs of
secretly indulged grief. I felt that I was right in my opinion that
Dorcas was the person most affected by the personal side of the
tragedy.

I pass over Alfred Inglethorp, who acted the bereaved widower in a
manner that I felt to be disgusting in its hypocrisy. Did he know that
we suspected him, I wondered. Surely he could not be unaware of the
fact, conceal it as we would. Did he feel some secret stirring of fear,
or was he confident that his crime would go unpunished? Surely the
suspicion in the atmosphere must warn him that he was already a marked
man.

But did everyone suspect him? What about Mrs. Cavendish? I watched her
as she sat at the head of the table, graceful, composed, enigmatic. In
her soft grey frock, with white ruffles at the wrists falling over her
slender hands, she looked very beautiful. When she chose, however, her
face could be sphinx-like in its inscrutability. She was very silent,
hardly opening her lips, and yet in some queer way I felt that the
great strength of her personality was dominating us all.

And little Cynthia? Did she suspect? She looked very tired and ill, I
thought. The heaviness and languor of her manner were very marked. I
asked her if she were feeling ill, and she answered frankly:

â€œYes, Iâ€™ve got the most beastly headache.â€�

â€œHave another cup of coffee, mademoiselle?â€� said Poirot solicitously.
â€œIt will revive you. It is unparalleled for the _mal de tÃªte_.â€� He
jumped up and took her cup.

â€œNo sugar,â€� said Cynthia, watching him, as he picked up the
sugar-tongs.

â€œNo sugar? You abandon it in the war-time, eh?â€�

â€œNo, I never take it in coffee.â€�

â€œ_SacrÃ©!_â€� murmured Poirot to himself, as he brought back the
replenished cup.

Only I heard him, and glancing up curiously at the little man I saw
that his face was working with suppressed excitement, and his eyes were
as green as a catâ€™s. He had heard or seen something that had affected
him stronglyâ€”but what was it? I do not usually label myself as dense,
but I must confess that nothing out of the ordinary had attracted _my_
attention.

In another moment, the door opened and Dorcas appeared.

â€œMr. Wells to see you, sir,â€� she said to John.

I remembered the name as being that of the lawyer to whom Mrs.
Inglethorp had written the night before.

John rose immediately.

â€œShow him into my study.â€� Then he turned to us. â€œMy motherâ€™s lawyer,â€�
he explained. And in a lower voice: â€œHe is also Coronerâ€”you understand.
Perhaps you would like to come with me?â€�

We acquiesced and followed him out of the room. John strode on ahead
and I took the opportunity of whispering to Poirot:

â€œThere will be an inquest then?â€�

Poirot nodded absently. He seemed absorbed in thought; so much so that
my curiosity was aroused.

â€œWhat is it? You are not attending to what I say.â€�

â€œIt is true, my friend. I am much worried.â€�

â€œWhy?â€�

â€œBecause Mademoiselle Cynthia does not take sugar in her coffee.â€�

â€œWhat? You cannot be serious?â€�

â€œBut I am most serious. Ah, there is something there that I do not
understand. My instinct was right.â€�

â€œWhat instinct?â€�

â€œThe instinct that led me to insist on examining those coffee-cups.
_Chut!_ no more now!â€�

We followed John into his study, and he closed the door behind us.

Mr. Wells was a pleasant man of middle-age, with keen eyes, and the
typical lawyerâ€™s mouth. John introduced us both, and explained the
reason of our presence.

â€œYou will understand, Wells,â€� he added, â€œthat this is all strictly
private. We are still hoping that there will turn out to be no need for
investigation of any kind.â€�

â€œQuite so, quite so,â€� said Mr. Wells soothingly. â€œI wish we could have
spared you the pain and publicity of an inquest, but of course itâ€™s
quite unavoidable in the absence of a doctorâ€™s certificate.â€�

â€œYes, I suppose so.â€�

â€œClever man, Bauerstein. Great authority on toxicology, I believe.â€�

â€œIndeed,â€� said John with a certain stiffness in his manner. Then he
added rather hesitatingly: â€œShall we have to appear as witnessesâ€”all of
us, I mean?â€�

â€œYou, of courseâ€”and ahâ€”erâ€”Mr.â€”erâ€”Inglethorp.â€�

A slight pause ensued before the lawyer went on in his soothing manner:

â€œAny other evidence will be simply confirmatory, a mere matter of
form.â€�

â€œI see.â€�

A faint expression of relief swept over Johnâ€™s face. It puzzled me, for
I saw no occasion for it.

â€œIf you know of nothing to the contrary,â€� pursued Mr. Wells, â€œI had
thought of Friday. That will give us plenty of time for the doctorâ€™s
report. The post-mortem is to take place to-night, I believe?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œThen that arrangement will suit you?â€�

â€œPerfectly.â€�

â€œI need not tell you, my dear Cavendish, how distressed I am at this
most tragic affair.â€�

â€œCan you give us no help in solving it, monsieur?â€� interposed Poirot,
speaking for the first time since we had entered the room.

â€œI?â€�

â€œYes, we heard that Mrs. Inglethorp wrote to you last night. You should
have received the letter this morning.â€�

â€œI did, but it contains no information. It is merely a note asking me
to call upon her this morning, as she wanted my advice on a matter of
great importance.â€�

â€œShe gave you no hint as to what that matter might be?â€�

â€œUnfortunately, no.â€�

â€œThat is a pity,â€� said John.

â€œA great pity,â€� agreed Poirot gravely.

There was silence. Poirot remained lost in thought for a few minutes.
Finally he turned to the lawyer again.

â€œMr. Wells, there is one thing I should like to ask youâ€”that is, if it
is not against professional etiquette. In the event of Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s death, who would inherit her money?â€�

The lawyer hesitated a moment, and then replied:

â€œThe knowledge will be public property very soon, so if Mr. Cavendish
does not objectâ€”â€”â€�

â€œNot at all,â€� interpolated John.

â€œI do not see any reason why I should not answer your question. By her
last will, dated August of last year, after various unimportant
legacies to servants, etc., she gave her entire fortune to her stepson,
Mr. John Cavendish.â€�

â€œWas not thatâ€”pardon the question, Mr. Cavendishâ€”rather unfair to her
other stepson, Mr. Lawrence Cavendish?â€�

â€œNo, I do not think so. You see, under the terms of their fatherâ€™s
will, while John inherited the property, Lawrence, at his stepmotherâ€™s
death, would come into a considerable sum of money. Mrs. Inglethorp
left her money to her elder stepson, knowing that he would have to keep
up Styles. It was, to my mind, a very fair and equitable distribution.â€�

Poirot nodded thoughtfully.

â€œI see. But I am right in saying, am I not, that by your English law
that will was automatically revoked when Mrs. Inglethorp remarried?â€�

Mr. Wells bowed his head.

â€œAs I was about to proceed, Monsieur Poirot, that document is now null
and void.â€�

â€œ_Hein!_â€� said Poirot. He reflected for a moment, and then asked: â€œWas
Mrs. Inglethorp herself aware of that fact?â€�

â€œI do not know. She may have been.â€�

â€œShe was,â€� said John unexpectedly. â€œWe were discussing the matter of
wills being revoked by marriage only yesterday.â€�

â€œAh! One more question, Mr. Wells. You say â€˜her last will.â€™ Had Mrs.
Inglethorp, then, made several former wills?â€�

â€œOn an average, she made a new will at least once a year,â€� said Mr.
Wells imperturbably. â€œShe was given to changing her mind as to her
testamentary dispositions, now benefiting one, now another member of
her family.â€�

â€œSuppose,â€� suggested Poirot, â€œthat, unknown to you, she had made a new
will in favour of someone who was not, in any sense of the word, a
member of the familyâ€”we will say Miss Howard, for instanceâ€”would you be
surprised?â€�

â€œNot in the least.â€�

â€œAh!â€� Poirot seemed to have exhausted his questions.

I drew close to him, while John and the lawyer were debating the
question of going through Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s papers.

â€œDo you think Mrs. Inglethorp made a will leaving all her money to Miss
Howard?â€� I asked in a low voice, with some curiosity.

Poirot smiled.

â€œNo.â€�

â€œThen why did you ask?â€�

â€œHush!â€�

John Cavendish had turned to Poirot.

â€œWill you come with us, Monsieur Poirot? We are going through my
motherâ€™s papers. Mr. Inglethorp is quite willing to leave it entirely
to Mr. Wells and myself.â€�

â€œWhich simplifies matters very much,â€� murmured the lawyer. â€œAs
technically, of course, he was entitledâ€”â€”â€� He did not finish the
sentence.

â€œWe will look through the desk in the boudoir first,â€� explained John,
â€œand go up to her bedroom afterwards. She kept her most important
papers in a purple despatch-case, which we must look through
carefully.â€�

â€œYes,â€� said the lawyer, â€œit is quite possible that there may be a later
will than the one in my possession.â€�

â€œThere _is_ a later will.â€� It was Poirot who spoke.

â€œWhat?â€� John and the lawyer looked at him startled.

â€œOr, rather,â€� pursued my friend imperturbably, â€œthere _was_ one.â€�

â€œWhat do you meanâ€”there was one? Where is it now?â€�

â€œBurnt!â€�

â€œBurnt?â€�

â€œYes. See here.â€� He took out the charred fragment we had found in the
grate in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room, and handed it to the lawyer with a
brief explanation of when and where he had found it.

â€œBut possibly this is an old will?â€�

â€œI do not think so. In fact I am almost certain that it was made no
earlier than yesterday afternoon.â€�

â€œWhat?â€� â€œImpossible!â€� broke simultaneously from both men.

Poirot turned to John.

â€œIf you will allow me to send for your gardener, I will prove it to
you.â€�

â€œOh, of courseâ€”but I donâ€™t seeâ€”â€”â€�

Poirot raised his hand.

â€œDo as I ask you. Afterwards you shall question as much as you please.â€�

â€œVery well.â€� He rang the bell.

Dorcas answered it in due course.

â€œDorcas, will you tell Manning to come round and speak to me here.â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€�

Dorcas withdrew.

We waited in a tense silence. Poirot alone seemed perfectly at his
ease, and dusted a forgotten corner of the bookcase.

The clumping of hobnailed boots on the gravel outside proclaimed the
approach of Manning. John looked questioningly at Poirot. The latter
nodded.

â€œCome inside, Manning,â€� said John, â€œI want to speak to you.â€�

Manning came slowly and hesitatingly through the French window, and
stood as near it as he could. He held his cap in his hands, twisting it
very carefully round and round. His back was much bent, though he was
probably not as old as he looked, but his eyes were sharp and
intelligent, and belied his slow and rather cautious speech.

â€œManning,â€� said John, â€œthis gentleman will put some questions to you
which I want you to answer.â€�

â€œYessir,â€� mumbled Manning.

Poirot stepped forward briskly. Manningâ€™s eye swept over him with a
faint contempt.

â€œYou were planting a bed of begonias round by the south side of the
house yesterday afternoon, were you not, Manning?â€�

â€œYes, sir, me and Willum.â€�

â€œAnd Mrs. Inglethorp came to the window and called you, did she not?â€�

â€œYes, sir, she did.â€�

â€œTell me in your own words exactly what happened after that.â€�

â€œWell, sir, nothing much. She just told Willum to go on his bicycle
down to the village, and bring back a form of will, or such-likeâ€”I
donâ€™t know what exactlyâ€”she wrote it down for him.â€�

â€œWell?â€�

â€œWell, he did, sir.â€�

â€œAnd what happened next?â€�

â€œWe went on with the begonias, sir.â€�

â€œDid not Mrs. Inglethorp call you again?â€�

â€œYes, sir, both me and Willum, she called.â€�

â€œAnd then?â€�

â€œShe made us come right in, and sign our names at the bottom of a long
paperâ€”under where sheâ€™d signed.â€�

â€œDid you see anything of what was written above her signature?â€� asked
Poirot sharply.

â€œNo, sir, there was a bit of blotting paper over that part.â€�

â€œAnd you signed where she told you?â€�

â€œYes, sir, first me and then Willum.â€�

â€œWhat did she do with it afterwards?â€�

â€œWell, sir, she slipped it into a long envelope, and put it inside a
sort of purple box that was standing on the desk.â€�

â€œWhat time was it when she first called you?â€�

â€œAbout four, I should say, sir.â€�

â€œNot earlier? Couldnâ€™t it have been about half-past three?â€�

â€œNo, I shouldnâ€™t say so, sir. It would be more likely to be a bit after
fourâ€”not before it.â€�

â€œThank you, Manning, that will do,â€� said Poirot pleasantly.

The gardener glanced at his master, who nodded, whereupon Manning
lifted a finger to his forehead with a low mumble, and backed
cautiously out of the window.

We all looked at each other.

â€œGood heavens!â€� murmured John. â€œWhat an extraordinary coincidence.â€�

â€œHowâ€”a coincidence?â€�

â€œThat my mother should have made a will on the very day of her death!â€�

Mr. Wells cleared his throat and remarked drily:

â€œAre you so sure it is a coincidence, Cavendish?â€�

â€œWhat do you mean?â€�

â€œYour mother, you tell me, had a violent quarrel withâ€”someone yesterday
afternoonâ€”â€”â€�

â€œWhat do you mean?â€� cried John again. There was a tremor in his voice,
and he had gone very pale.

â€œIn consequence of that quarrel, your mother very suddenly and
hurriedly makes a new will. The contents of that will we shall never
know. She told no one of its provisions. This morning, no doubt, she
would have consulted me on the subjectâ€”but she had no chance. The will
disappears, and she takes its secret with her to her grave. Cavendish,
I much fear there is no coincidence there. Monsieur Poirot, I am sure
you agree with me that the facts are very suggestive.â€�

â€œSuggestive, or not,â€� interrupted John, â€œwe are most grateful to
Monsieur Poirot for elucidating the matter. But for him, we should
never have known of this will. I suppose, I may not ask you, monsieur,
what first led you to suspect the fact?â€�

Poirot smiled and answered:

â€œA scribbled over old envelope, and a freshly planted bed of begonias.â€�

John, I think, would have pressed his questions further, but at that
moment the loud purr of a motor was audible, and we all turned to the
window as it swept past.

â€œEvie!â€� cried John. â€œExcuse me, Wells.â€� He went hurriedly out into the
hall.

Poirot looked inquiringly at me.

â€œMiss Howard,â€� I explained.

â€œAh, I am glad she has come. There is a woman with a head and a heart
too, Hastings. Though the good God gave her no beauty!â€�

I followed Johnâ€™s example, and went out into the hall, where Miss
Howard was endeavouring to extricate herself from the voluminous mass
of veils that enveloped her head. As her eyes fell on me, a sudden pang
of guilt shot through me. This was the woman who had warned me so
earnestly, and to whose warning I had, alas, paid no heed! How soon,
and how contemptuously, I had dismissed it from my mind. Now that she
had been proved justified in so tragic a manner, I felt ashamed. She
had known Alfred Inglethorp only too well. I wondered whether, if she
had remained at Styles, the tragedy would have taken place, or would
the man have feared her watchful eyes?

I was relieved when she shook me by the hand, with her well remembered
painful grip. The eyes that met mine were sad, but not reproachful;
that she had been crying bitterly, I could tell by the redness of her
eyelids, but her manner was unchanged from its old gruffness.

â€œStarted the moment I got the wire. Just come off night duty. Hired
car. Quickest way to get here.â€�

â€œHave you had anything to eat this morning, Evie?â€� asked John.

â€œNo.â€�

â€œI thought not. Come along, breakfastâ€™s not cleared away yet, and
theyâ€™ll make you some fresh tea.â€� He turned to me. â€œLook after her,
Hastings, will you? Wells is waiting for me. Oh, hereâ€™s Monsieur
Poirot. Heâ€™s helping us, you know, Evie.â€�

Miss Howard shook hands with Poirot, but glanced suspiciously over her
shoulder at John.

â€œWhat do you meanâ€”helping us?â€�

â€œHelping us to investigate.â€�

â€œNothing to investigate. Have they taken him to prison yet?â€�

â€œTaken who to prison?â€�

â€œWho? Alfred Inglethorp, of course!â€�

â€œMy dear Evie, do be careful. Lawrence is of the opinion that my mother
died from heart seizure.â€�

â€œMore fool, Lawrence!â€� retorted Miss Howard. â€œOf course Alfred
Inglethorp murdered poor Emilyâ€”as I always told you he would.â€�

â€œMy dear Evie, donâ€™t shout so. Whatever we may think or suspect, it is
better to say as little as possible for the present. The inquest isnâ€™t
until Friday.â€�

â€œNot until fiddlesticks!â€� The snort Miss Howard gave was truly
magnificent. â€œYouâ€™re all off your heads. The man will be out of the
country by then. If heâ€™s any sense, he wonâ€™t stay here tamely and wait
to be hanged.â€�

John Cavendish looked at her helplessly.

â€œI know what it is,â€� she accused him, â€œyouâ€™ve been listening to the
doctors. Never should. What do they know? Nothing at allâ€”or just enough
to make them dangerous. I ought to knowâ€”my own father was a doctor.
That little Wilkins is about the greatest fool that even I have ever
seen. Heart seizure! Sort of thing he would say. Anyone with any sense
could see at once that her husband had poisoned her. I always said heâ€™d
murder her in her bed, poor soul. Now heâ€™s done it. And all you can do
is to murmur silly things about â€˜heart seizureâ€™ and â€˜inquest on
Friday.â€™ You ought to be ashamed of yourself, John Cavendish.â€�

â€œWhat do you want me to do?â€� asked John, unable to help a faint smile.
â€œDash it all, Evie, I canâ€™t haul him down to the local police station
by the scruff of his neck.â€�

â€œWell, you might do something. Find out how he did it. Heâ€™s a crafty
beggar. Dare say he soaked fly papers. Ask cook if sheâ€™s missed any.â€�

It occurred to me very forcibly at that moment that to harbour Miss
Howard and Alfred Inglethorp under the same roof, and keep the peace
between them, was likely to prove a Herculean task, and I did not envy
John. I could see by the expression of his face that he fully
appreciated the difficulty of the position. For the moment, he sought
refuge in retreat, and left the room precipitately.

Dorcas brought in fresh tea. As she left the room, Poirot came over
from the window where he had been standing, and sat down facing Miss
Howard.

â€œMademoiselle,â€� he said gravely, â€œI want to ask you something.â€�

â€œAsk away,â€� said the lady, eyeing him with some disfavour.

â€œI want to be able to count upon your help.â€�

â€œIâ€™ll help you to hang Alfred with pleasure,â€� she replied gruffly.
â€œHangingâ€™s too good for him. Ought to be drawn and quartered, like in
good old times.â€�

â€œWe are at one then,â€� said Poirot, â€œfor I, too, want to hang the
criminal.â€�

â€œAlfred Inglethorp?â€�

â€œHim, or another.â€�

â€œNo question of another. Poor Emily was never murdered until _he_ came
along. I donâ€™t say she wasnâ€™t surrounded by sharksâ€”she was. But it was
only her purse they were after. Her life was safe enough. But along
comes Mr. Alfred Inglethorpâ€”and within two monthsâ€”hey presto!â€�

â€œBelieve me, Miss Howard,â€� said Poirot very earnestly, â€œif Mr.
Inglethorp is the man, he shall not escape me. On my honour, I will
hang him as high as Haman!â€�

â€œThatâ€™s better,â€� said Miss Howard more enthusiastically.

â€œBut I must ask you to trust me. Now your help may be very valuable to
me. I will tell you why. Because, in all this house of mourning, yours
are the only eyes that have wept.â€�

Miss Howard blinked, and a new note crept into the gruffness of her
voice.

â€œIf you mean that I was fond of herâ€”yes, I was. You know, Emily was a
selfish old woman in her way. She was very generous, but she always
wanted a return. She never let people forget what she had done for
themâ€”and, that way she missed love. Donâ€™t think she ever realized it,
though, or felt the lack of it. Hope not, anyway. I was on a different
footing. I took my stand from the first. â€˜So many pounds a year Iâ€™m
worth to you. Well and good. But not a penny piece besidesâ€”not a pair
of gloves, nor a theatre ticket.â€™ She didnâ€™t understandâ€”was very
offended sometimes. Said I was foolishly proud. It wasnâ€™t thatâ€”but I
couldnâ€™t explain. Anyway, I kept my self-respect. And so, out of the
whole bunch, I was the only one who could allow myself to be fond of
her. I watched over her. I guarded her from the lot of them, and then a
glib-tongued scoundrel comes along, and pooh! all my years of devotion
go for nothing.â€�

Poirot nodded sympathetically.

â€œI understand, mademoiselle, I understand all you feel. It is most
natural. You think that we are lukewarmâ€”that we lack fire and
energyâ€”but trust me, it is not so.â€�

John stuck his head in at this juncture, and invited us both to come up
to Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room, as he and Mr. Wells had finished looking
through the desk in the boudoir.

As we went up the stairs, John looked back to the dining-room door, and
lowered his voice confidentially:

â€œLook here, whatâ€™s going to happen when these two meet?â€�

I shook my head helplessly.

â€œIâ€™ve told Mary to keep them apart if she can.â€�

â€œWill she be able to do so?â€�

â€œThe Lord only knows. Thereâ€™s one thing, Inglethorp himself wonâ€™t be
too keen on meeting her.â€�

â€œYouâ€™ve got the keys still, havenâ€™t you, Poirot?â€� I asked, as we
reached the door of the locked room.

Taking the keys from Poirot, John unlocked it, and we all passed in.
The lawyer went straight to the desk, and John followed him.

â€œMy mother kept most of her important papers in this despatch-case, I
believe,â€� he said.

Poirot drew out the small bunch of keys.

â€œPermit me. I locked it, out of precaution, this morning.â€�

â€œBut itâ€™s not locked now.â€�

â€œImpossible!â€�

â€œSee.â€� And John lifted the lid as he spoke.

â€œ_Milles tonnerres!_â€� cried Poirot, dumbfounded. â€œAnd Iâ€”who have both
the keys in my pocket!â€� He flung himself upon the case. Suddenly he
stiffened. â€œ_Eh voilÃ  une affaire!_ This lock has been forced.â€�

â€œWhat?â€�

Poirot laid down the case again.

â€œBut who forced it? Why should they? When? But the door was locked?â€�
These exclamations burst from us disjointedly.

Poirot answered them categoricallyâ€”almost mechanically.

â€œWho? That is the question. Why? Ah, if I only knew. When? Since I was
here an hour ago. As to the door being locked, it is a very ordinary
lock. Probably any other of the doorkeys in this passage would fit it.â€�

We stared at one another blankly. Poirot had walked over to the
mantelpiece. He was outwardly calm, but I noticed his hands, which from
long force of habit were mechanically straightening the spill vases on
the mantelpiece, were shaking violently.

â€œSee here, it was like this,â€� he said at last. â€œThere was something in
that caseâ€”some piece of evidence, slight in itself perhaps, but still
enough of a clue to connect the murderer with the crime. It was vital
to him that it should be destroyed before it was discovered and its
significance appreciated. Therefore, he took the risk, the great risk,
of coming in here. Finding the case locked, he was obliged to force it,
thus betraying his presence. For him to take that risk, it must have
been something of great importance.â€�

â€œBut what was it?â€�

â€œAh!â€� cried Poirot, with a gesture of anger. â€œThat, I do not know! A
document of some kind, without doubt, possibly the scrap of paper
Dorcas saw in her hand yesterday afternoon. And Iâ€”â€� his anger burst
forth freelyâ€”â€œmiserable animal that I am! I guessed nothing! I have
behaved like an imbecile! I should never have left that case here. I
should have carried it away with me. Ah, triple pig! And now it is
gone. It is destroyedâ€”but is it destroyed? Is there not yet a chanceâ€”we
must leave no stone unturnedâ€”â€�

He rushed like a madman from the room, and I followed him as soon as I
had sufficiently recovered my wits. But, by the time I had reached the
top of the stairs, he was out of sight.

Mary Cavendish was standing where the staircase branched, staring down
into the hall in the direction in which he had disappeared.

â€œWhat has happened to your extraordinary little friend, Mr. Hastings?
He has just rushed past me like a mad bull.â€�

â€œHeâ€™s rather upset about something,â€� I remarked feebly. I really did
not know how much Poirot would wish me to disclose. As I saw a faint
smile gather on Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s expressive mouth, I endeavoured to try
and turn the conversation by saying: â€œThey havenâ€™t met yet, have they?â€�

â€œWho?â€�

â€œMr. Inglethorp and Miss Howard.â€�

She looked at me in rather a disconcerting manner.

â€œDo you think it would be such a disaster if they did meet?â€�

â€œWell, donâ€™t you?â€� I said, rather taken aback.

â€œNo.â€� She was smiling in her quiet way. â€œI should like to see a good
flare up. It would clear the air. At present we are all thinking so
much, and saying so little.â€�

â€œJohn doesnâ€™t think so,â€� I remarked. â€œHeâ€™s anxious to keep them apart.â€�

â€œOh, John!â€�

Something in her tone fired me, and I blurted out:

â€œOld Johnâ€™s an awfully good sort.â€�

She studied me curiously for a minute or two, and then said, to my
great surprise:

â€œYou are loyal to your friend. I like you for that.â€�

â€œArenâ€™t you my friend too?â€�

â€œI am a very bad friend.â€�

â€œWhy do you say that?â€�

â€œBecause it is true. I am charming to my friends one day, and forget
all about them the next.â€�

I donâ€™t know what impelled me, but I was nettled, and I said foolishly
and not in the best of taste:

â€œYet you seem to be invariably charming to Dr. Bauerstein!â€�

Instantly I regretted my words. Her face stiffened. I had the
impression of a steel curtain coming down and blotting out the real
woman. Without a word, she turned and went swiftly up the stairs,
whilst I stood like an idiot gaping after her.

I was recalled to other matters by a frightful row going on below. I
could hear Poirot shouting and expounding. I was vexed to think that my
diplomacy had been in vain. The little man appeared to be taking the
whole house into his confidence, a proceeding of which I, for one,
doubted the wisdom. Once again I could not help regretting that my
friend was so prone to lose his head in moments of excitement. I
stepped briskly down the stairs. The sight of me calmed Poirot almost
immediately. I drew him aside.

â€œMy dear fellow,â€� I said, â€œis this wise? Surely you donâ€™t want the
whole house to know of this occurrence? You are actually playing into
the criminalâ€™s hands.â€�

â€œYou think so, Hastings?â€�

â€œI am sure of it.â€�

â€œWell, well, my friend, I will be guided by you.â€�

â€œGood. Although, unfortunately, it is a little too late now.â€�

â€œSure.â€�

He looked so crestfallen and abashed that I felt quite sorry, though I
still thought my rebuke a just and wise one.

â€œWell,â€� he said at last, â€œlet us go, _mon ami_.â€�

â€œYou have finished here?â€�

â€œFor the moment, yes. You will walk back with me to the village?â€�

â€œWillingly.â€�

He picked up his little suit-case, and we went out through the open
window in the drawing-room. Cynthia Murdoch was just coming in, and
Poirot stood aside to let her pass.

â€œExcuse me, mademoiselle, one minute.â€�

â€œYes?â€� she turned inquiringly.

â€œDid you ever make up Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s medicines?â€�

A slight flush rose in her face, as she answered rather constrainedly:

â€œNo.â€�

â€œOnly her powders?â€�

The flush deepened as Cynthia replied:

â€œOh, yes, I did make up some sleeping powders for her once.â€�

â€œThese?â€�

Poirot produced the empty box which had contained powders.

She nodded.

â€œCan you tell me what they were? Sulphonal? Veronal?â€�

â€œNo, they were bromide powders.â€�

â€œAh! Thank you, mademoiselle; good morning.â€�

As we walked briskly away from the house, I glanced at him more than
once. I had often before noticed that, if anything excited him, his
eyes turned green like a catâ€™s. They were shining like emeralds now.

â€œMy friend,â€� he broke out at last, â€œI have a little idea, a very
strange, and probably utterly impossible idea. And yetâ€”it fits in.â€�

I shrugged my shoulders. I privately thought that Poirot was rather too
much given to these fantastic ideas. In this case, surely, the truth
was only too plain and apparent.

â€œSo that is the explanation of the blank label on the box,â€� I remarked.
â€œVery simple, as you said. I really wonder that I did not think of it
myself.â€�

Poirot did not appear to be listening to me.

â€œThey have made one more discovery, _lÃ -bas_,â€� he observed, jerking his
thumb over his shoulder in the direction of Styles. â€œMr. Wells told me
as we were going upstairs.â€�

â€œWhat was it?â€�

â€œLocked up in the desk in the boudoir, they found a will of Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s, dated before her marriage, leaving her fortune to Alfred
Inglethorp. It must have been made just at the time they were engaged.
It came quite as a surprise to Wellsâ€”and to John Cavendish also. It was
written on one of those printed will forms, and witnessed by two of the
servantsâ€”not Dorcas.â€�

â€œDid Mr. Inglethorp know of it?â€�

â€œHe says not.â€�

â€œOne might take that with a grain of salt,â€� I remarked sceptically.
â€œAll these wills are very confusing. Tell me, how did those scribbled
words on the envelope help you to discover that a will was made
yesterday afternoon?â€�

Poirot smiled.

â€œ_Mon ami_, have you ever, when writing a letter, been arrested by the
fact that you did not know how to spell a certain word?â€�

â€œYes, often. I suppose everyone has.â€�

â€œExactly. And have you not, in such a case, tried the word once or
twice on the edge of the blotting-paper, or a spare scrap of paper, to
see if it looked right? Well, that is what Mrs. Inglethorp did. You
will notice that the word â€˜possessedâ€™ is spelt first with one â€˜sâ€™ and
subsequently with twoâ€”correctly. To make sure, she had further tried it
in a sentence, thus: â€˜I am possessed.â€™ Now, what did that tell me? It
told me that Mrs. Inglethorp had been writing the word â€˜possessedâ€™ that
afternoon, and, having the fragment of paper found in the grate fresh
in my mind, the possibility of a willâ€”(a document almost certain to
contain that word)â€”occurred to me at once. This possibility was
confirmed by a further circumstance. In the general confusion, the
boudoir had not been swept that morning, and near the desk were several
traces of brown mould and earth. The weather had been perfectly fine
for some days, and no ordinary boots would have left such a heavy
deposit.

â€œI strolled to the window, and saw at once that the begonia beds had
been newly planted. The mould in the beds was exactly similar to that
on the floor of the boudoir, and also I learnt from you that they _had_
been planted yesterday afternoon. I was now sure that one, or possibly
both of the gardenersâ€”for there were two sets of footprints in the
bedâ€”had entered the boudoir, for if Mrs. Inglethorp had merely wished
to speak to them she would in all probability have stood at the window,
and they would not have come into the room at all. I was now quite
convinced that she had made a fresh will, and had called the two
gardeners in to witness her signature. Events proved that I was right
in my supposition.â€�

â€œThat was very ingenious,â€� I could not help admitting. â€œI must confess
that the conclusions I drew from those few scribbled words were quite
erroneous.â€�

He smiled.

â€œYou gave too much rein to your imagination. Imagination is a good
servant, and a bad master. The simplest explanation is always the most
likely.â€�

â€œAnother pointâ€”how did you know that the key of the despatch-case had
been lost?â€�

â€œI did not know it. It was a guess that turned out to be correct. You
observed that it had a piece of twisted wire through the handle. That
suggested to me at once that it had possibly been wrenched off a flimsy
key-ring. Now, if it had been lost and recovered, Mrs. Inglethorp would
at once have replaced it on her bunch; but on her bunch I found what
was obviously the duplicate key, very new and bright, which led me to
the hypothesis that somebody else had inserted the original key in the
lock of the despatch-case.â€�

â€œYes,â€� I said, â€œAlfred Inglethorp, without doubt.â€�

Poirot looked at me curiously.

â€œYou are very sure of his guilt?â€�

â€œWell, naturally. Every fresh circumstance seems to establish it more
clearly.â€�

â€œOn the contrary,â€� said Poirot quietly, â€œthere are several points in
his favour.â€�

â€œOh, come now!â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œI see only one.â€�

â€œAnd that?â€�

â€œThat he was not in the house last night.â€�

â€œâ€˜Bad shot!â€™ as you English say! You have chosen the one point that to
my mind tells against him.â€�

â€œHow is that?â€�

â€œBecause if Mr. Inglethorp knew that his wife would be poisoned last
night, he would certainly have arranged to be away from the house. His
excuse was an obviously trumped up one. That leaves us two
possibilities: either he knew what was going to happen or he had a
reason of his own for his absence.â€�

â€œAnd that reason?â€� I asked sceptically.

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

â€œHow should I know? Discreditable, without doubt. This Mr. Inglethorp,
I should say, is somewhat of a scoundrelâ€”but that does not of necessity
make him a murderer.â€�

I shook my head, unconvinced.

â€œWe do not agree, eh?â€� said Poirot. â€œWell, let us leave it. Time will
show which of us is right. Now let us turn to other aspects of the
case. What do you make of the fact that all the doors of the bedroom
were bolted on the inside?â€�

â€œWellâ€”â€”â€� I considered. â€œOne must look at it logically.â€�

â€œTrue.â€�

â€œI should put it this way. The doors _were_ boltedâ€”our own eyes have
told us thatâ€”yet the presence of the candle grease on the floor, and
the destruction of the will, prove that during the night someone
entered the room. You agree so far?â€�

â€œPerfectly. Put with admirable clearness. Proceed.â€�

â€œWell,â€� I said, encouraged, â€œas the person who entered did not do so by
the window, nor by miraculous means, it follows that the door must have
been opened from inside by Mrs. Inglethorp herself. That strengthens
the conviction that the person in question was her husband. She would
naturally open the door to her own husband.â€�

Poirot shook his head.

â€œWhy should she? She had bolted the door leading into his roomâ€”a most
unusual proceeding on her partâ€”she had had a most violent quarrel with
him that very afternoon. No, he was the last person she would admit.â€�

â€œBut you agree with me that the door must have been opened by Mrs.
Inglethorp herself?â€�

â€œThere is another possibility. She may have forgotten to bolt the door
into the passage when she went to bed, and have got up later, towards
morning, and bolted it then.â€�

â€œPoirot, is that seriously your opinion?â€�

â€œNo, I do not say it is so, but it might be. Now, to turn to another
feature, what do you make of the scrap of conversation you overheard
between Mrs. Cavendish and her mother-in-law?â€�

â€œI had forgotten that,â€� I said thoughtfully. â€œThat is as enigmatical as
ever. It seems incredible that a woman like Mrs. Cavendish, proud and
reticent to the last degree, should interfere so violently in what was
certainly not her affair.â€�

â€œPrecisely. It was an astonishing thing for a woman of her breeding to
do.â€�

â€œIt is certainly curious,â€� I agreed. â€œStill, it is unimportant, and
need not be taken into account.â€�

A groan burst from Poirot.

â€œWhat have I always told you? Everything must be taken into account. If
the fact will not fit the theoryâ€”let the theory go.â€�

â€œWell, we shall see,â€� I said, nettled.

â€œYes, we shall see.â€�

We had reached Leastways Cottage, and Poirot ushered me upstairs to his
own room. He offered me one of the tiny Russian cigarettes he himself
occasionally smoked. I was amused to notice that he stowed away the
used matches most carefully in a little china pot. My momentary
annoyance vanished.

Poirot had placed our two chairs in front of the open window which
commanded a view of the village street. The fresh air blew in warm and
pleasant. It was going to be a hot day.

Suddenly my attention was arrested by a weedy looking young man rushing
down the street at a great pace. It was the expression on his face that
was extraordinaryâ€”a curious mingling of terror and agitation.

â€œLook, Poirot!â€� I said.

He leant forward.

â€œ_Tiens!_â€� he said. â€œIt is Mr. Mace, from the chemistâ€™s shop. He is
coming here.â€�

The young man came to a halt before Leastways Cottage, and, after
hesitating a moment, pounded vigorously at the door.

â€œA little minute,â€� cried Poirot from the window. â€œI come.â€�

Motioning to me to follow him, he ran swiftly down the stairs and
opened the door. Mr. Mace began at once.

â€œOh, Mr. Poirot, Iâ€™m sorry for the inconvenience, but I heard that
youâ€™d just come back from the Hall?â€�

â€œYes, we have.â€�

The young man moistened his dry lips. His face was working curiously.

â€œItâ€™s all over the village about old Mrs. Inglethorp dying so suddenly.
They do sayâ€”â€� he lowered his voice cautiouslyâ€”â€œthat itâ€™s poison?â€�

Poirotâ€™s face remained quite impassive.

â€œOnly the doctors can tell us that, Mr. Mace.â€�

â€œYes, exactlyâ€”of courseâ€”â€”â€� The young man hesitated, and then his
agitation was too much for him. He clutched Poirot by the arm, and sank
his voice to a whisper: â€œJust tell me this, Mr. Poirot, it isnâ€™tâ€”it
isnâ€™t strychnine, is it?â€�

I hardly heard what Poirot replied. Something evidently of a
non-committal nature. The young man departed, and as he closed the door
Poirotâ€™s eyes met mine.

â€œYes,â€� he said, nodding gravely. â€œHe will have evidence to give at the
inquest.â€�

We went slowly upstairs again. I was opening my lips, when Poirot
stopped me with a gesture of his hand.

â€œNot now, not now, _mon ami_. I have need of reflection. My mind is in
some disorderâ€”which is not well.â€�

For about ten minutes he sat in dead silence, perfectly still, except
for several expressive motions of his eyebrows, and all the time his
eyes grew steadily greener. At last he heaved a deep sigh.

â€œIt is well. The bad moment has passed. Now all is arranged and
classified. One must never permit confusion. The case is not clear
yetâ€”no. For it is of the most complicated! It puzzles _me_. _Me_,
Hercule Poirot! There are two facts of significance.â€�

â€œAnd what are they?â€�

â€œThe first is the state of the weather yesterday. That is very
important.â€�

â€œBut it was a glorious day!â€� I interrupted. â€œPoirot, youâ€™re pulling my
leg!â€�

â€œNot at all. The thermometer registered 80 degrees in the shade. Do not
forget that, my friend. It is the key to the whole riddle!â€�

â€œAnd the second point?â€� I asked.

â€œThe important fact that Monsieur Inglethorp wears very peculiar
clothes, has a black beard, and uses glasses.â€�

â€œPoirot, I cannot believe you are serious.â€�

â€œI am absolutely serious, my friend.â€�

â€œBut this is childish!â€�

â€œNo, it is very momentous.â€�

â€œAnd supposing the Coronerâ€™s jury returns a verdict of Wilful Murder
against Alfred Inglethorp. What becomes of your theories, then?â€�

â€œThey would not be shaken because twelve stupid men had happened to
make a mistake! But that will not occur. For one thing, a country jury
is not anxious to take responsibility upon itself, and Mr. Inglethorp
stands practically in the position of local squire. Also,â€� he added
placidly, â€œ_I_ should not allow it!â€�

â€œ_You_ would not allow it?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

I looked at the extraordinary little man, divided between annoyance and
amusement. He was so tremendously sure of himself. As though he read my
thoughts, he nodded gently.

â€œOh, yes, _mon ami_, I would do what I say.â€� He got up and laid his
hand on my shoulder. His physiognomy underwent a complete change. Tears
came into his eyes. â€œIn all this, you see, I think of that poor Mrs.
Inglethorp who is dead. She was not extravagantly lovedâ€”no. But she was
very good to us Belgiansâ€”I owe her a debt.â€�

I endeavoured to interrupt, but Poirot swept on.

â€œLet me tell you this, Hastings. She would never forgive me if I let
Alfred Inglethorp, her husband, be arrested _now_â€”when a word from me
could save him!â€�






CHAPTER VI. THE INQUEST

In the interval before the inquest, Poirot was unfailing in his
activity. Twice he was closeted with Mr. Wells. He also took long walks
into the country. I rather resented his not taking me into his
confidence, the more so as I could not in the least guess what he was
driving at.

It occurred to me that he might have been making inquiries at Raikesâ€™s
farm; so, finding him out when I called at Leastways Cottage on
Wednesday evening, I walked over there by the fields, hoping to meet
him. But there was no sign of him, and I hesitated to go right up to
the farm itself. As I walked away, I met an aged rustic, who leered at
me cunningly.

â€œYouâ€™m from the Hall, bainâ€™t you?â€� he asked.

â€œYes. Iâ€™m looking for a friend of mine whom I thought might have walked
this way.â€�

â€œA little chap? As waves his hands when he talks? One of them Belgies
from the village?â€�

â€œYes,â€� I said eagerly. â€œHe has been here, then?â€�

â€œOh, ay, heâ€™s been here, right enough. Moreâ€™n once too. Friend of
yours, is he? Ah, you gentlemen from the Hallâ€”youâ€™m a pretty lot!â€� And
he leered more jocosely than ever.

â€œWhy, do the gentlemen from the Hall come here often?â€� I asked, as
carelessly as I could.

He winked at me knowingly.

â€œ_One_ does, mister. Naming no names, mind. And a very liberal
gentleman too! Oh, thank you, sir, Iâ€™m sure.â€�

I walked on sharply. Evelyn Howard had been right then, and I
experienced a sharp twinge of disgust, as I thought of Alfred
Inglethorpâ€™s liberality with another womanâ€™s money. Had that piquant
gipsy face been at the bottom of the crime, or was it the baser
mainspring of money? Probably a judicious mixture of both.

On one point, Poirot seemed to have a curious obsession. He once or
twice observed to me that he thought Dorcas must have made an error in
fixing the time of the quarrel. He suggested to her repeatedly that it
was four-thirty, and not four oâ€™clock when she had heard the voices.

But Dorcas was unshaken. Quite an hour, or even more, had elapsed
between the time when she had heard the voices and five oâ€™clock, when
she had taken tea to her mistress.

The inquest was held on Friday at the Stylites Arms in the village.
Poirot and I sat together, not being required to give evidence.

The preliminaries were gone through. The jury viewed the body, and John
Cavendish gave evidence of identification.

Further questioned, he described his awakening in the early hours of
the morning, and the circumstances of his motherâ€™s death.

The medical evidence was next taken. There was a breathless hush, and
every eye was fixed on the famous London specialist, who was known to
be one of the greatest authorities of the day on the subject of
toxicology.

In a few brief words, he summed up the result of the post-mortem. Shorn
of its medical phraseology and technicalities, it amounted to the fact
that Mrs. Inglethorp had met her death as the result of strychnine
poisoning. Judging from the quantity recovered, she must have taken not
less than three-quarters of a grain of strychnine, but probably one
grain or slightly over.

â€œIs it possible that she could have swallowed the poison by accident?â€�
asked the Coroner.

â€œI should consider it very unlikely. Strychnine is not used for
domestic purposes, as some poisons are, and there are restrictions
placed on its sale.â€�

â€œDoes anything in your examination lead you to determine how the poison
was administered?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œYou arrived at Styles before Dr. Wilkins, I believe?â€�

â€œThat is so. The motor met me just outside the lodge gates, and I
hurried there as fast as I could.â€�

â€œWill you relate to us exactly what happened next?â€�

â€œI entered Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room. She was at that moment in a typical
tetanic convulsion. She turned towards me, and gasped out:
â€˜Alfredâ€”Alfredâ€”â€”â€™â€�

â€œCould the strychnine have been administered in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
after-dinner coffee which was taken to her by her husband?â€�

â€œPossibly, but strychnine is a fairly rapid drug in its action. The
symptoms appear from one to two hours after it has been swallowed. It
is retarded under certain conditions, none of which, however, appear to
have been present in this case. I presume Mrs. Inglethorp took the
coffee after dinner about eight oâ€™clock, whereas the symptoms did not
manifest themselves until the early hours of the morning, which, on the
face of it, points to the drug having been taken much later in the
evening.â€�

â€œMrs. Inglethorp was in the habit of drinking a cup of cocoa in the
middle of the night. Could the strychnine have been administered in
that?â€�

â€œNo, I myself took a sample of the cocoa remaining in the saucepan and
had it analysed. There was no strychnine present.â€�

I heard Poirot chuckle softly beside me.

â€œHow did you know?â€� I whispered.

â€œListen.â€�

â€œI should sayâ€�â€”the doctor was continuingâ€”â€œthat I would have been
considerably surprised at any other result.â€�

â€œWhy?â€�

â€œSimply because strychnine has an unusually bitter taste. It can be
detected in a solution of one in seventy thousand, and can only be
disguised by some strongly flavoured substance. Cocoa would be quite
powerless to mask it.â€�

One of the jury wanted to know if the same objection applied to coffee.

â€œNo. Coffee has a bitter taste of its own which would probably cover
the taste of strychnine.â€�

â€œThen you consider it more likely that the drug was administered in the
coffee, but that for some unknown reason its action was delayed.â€�

â€œYes, but, the cup being completely smashed, there is no possibility of
analyzing its contents.â€�

This concluded Dr. Bauersteinâ€™s evidence. Dr. Wilkins corroborated it
on all points. Sounded as to the possibility of suicide, he repudiated
it utterly. The deceased, he said, suffered from a weak heart, but
otherwise enjoyed perfect health, and was of a cheerful and
well-balanced disposition. She would be one of the last people to take
her own life.

Lawrence Cavendish was next called. His evidence was quite unimportant,
being a mere repetition of that of his brother. Just as he was about to
step down, he paused, and said rather hesitatingly:

â€œI should like to make a suggestion if I may?â€�

He glanced deprecatingly at the Coroner, who replied briskly:

â€œCertainly, Mr. Cavendish, we are here to arrive at the truth of this
matter, and welcome anything that may lead to further elucidation.â€�

â€œIt is just an idea of mine,â€� explained Lawrence. â€œOf course I may be
quite wrong, but it still seems to me that my motherâ€™s death might be
accounted for by natural means.â€�

â€œHow do you make that out, Mr. Cavendish?â€�

â€œMy mother, at the time of her death, and for some time before it, was
taking a tonic containing strychnine.â€�

â€œAh!â€� said the Coroner.

The jury looked up, interested.

â€œI believe,â€� continued Lawrence, â€œthat there have been cases where the
cumulative effect of a drug, administered for some time, has ended by
causing death. Also, is it not possible that she may have taken an
overdose of her medicine by accident?â€�

â€œThis is the first we have heard of the deceased taking strychnine at
the time of her death. We are much obliged to you, Mr. Cavendish.â€�

Dr. Wilkins was recalled and ridiculed the idea.

â€œWhat Mr. Cavendish suggests is quite impossible. Any doctor would tell
you the same. Strychnine is, in a certain sense, a cumulative poison,
but it would be quite impossible for it to result in sudden death in
this way. There would have to be a long period of chronic symptoms
which would at once have attracted my attention. The whole thing is
absurd.â€�

â€œAnd the second suggestion? That Mrs. Inglethorp may have inadvertently
taken an overdose?â€�

â€œThree, or even four doses, would not have resulted in death. Mrs.
Inglethorp always had an extra large amount of medicine made up at a
time, as she dealt with Cootâ€™s, the Cash Chemists in Tadminster. She
would have had to take very nearly the whole bottle to account for the
amount of strychnine found at the post-mortem.â€�

â€œThen you consider that we may dismiss the tonic as not being in any
way instrumental in causing her death?â€�

â€œCertainly. The supposition is ridiculous.â€�

The same juryman who had interrupted before here suggested that the
chemist who made up the medicine might have committed an error.

â€œThat, of course, is always possible,â€� replied the doctor.

But Dorcas, who was the next witness called, dispelled even that
possibility. The medicine had not been newly made up. On the contrary,
Mrs. Inglethorp had taken the last dose on the day of her death.

So the question of the tonic was finally abandoned, and the Coroner
proceeded with his task. Having elicited from Dorcas how she had been
awakened by the violent ringing of her mistressâ€™s bell, and had
subsequently roused the household, he passed to the subject of the
quarrel on the preceding afternoon.

Dorcasâ€™s evidence on this point was substantially what Poirot and I had
already heard, so I will not repeat it here.

The next witness was Mary Cavendish. She stood very upright, and spoke
in a low, clear, and perfectly composed voice. In answer to the
Coronerâ€™s question, she told how, her alarm clock having aroused her at
four-thirty as usual, she was dressing, when she was startled by the
sound of something heavy falling.

â€œThat would have been the table by the bed?â€� commented the Coroner.

â€œI opened my door,â€� continued Mary, â€œand listened. In a few minutes a
bell rang violently. Dorcas came running down and woke my husband, and
we all went to my mother-in-lawâ€™s room, but it was lockedâ€”â€”â€�

The Coroner interrupted her.

â€œI really do not think we need trouble you further on that point. We
know all that can be known of the subsequent happenings. But I should
be obliged if you would tell us all you overheard of the quarrel the
day before.â€�

â€œI?â€�

There was a faint insolence in her voice. She raised her hand and
adjusted the ruffle of lace at her neck, turning her head a little as
she did so. And quite spontaneously the thought flashed across my mind:
â€œShe is gaining time!â€�

â€œYes. I understand,â€� continued the Coroner deliberately, â€œthat you were
sitting reading on the bench just outside the long window of the
boudoir. That is so, is it not?â€�

This was news to me and glancing sideways at Poirot, I fancied that it
was news to him as well.

There was the faintest pause, the mere hesitation of a moment, before
she answered:

â€œYes, that is so.â€�

â€œAnd the boudoir window was open, was it not?â€�

Surely her face grew a little paler as she answered:

â€œYes.â€�

â€œThen you cannot have failed to hear the voices inside, especially as
they were raised in anger. In fact, they would be more audible where
you were than in the hall.â€�

â€œPossibly.â€�

â€œWill you repeat to us what you overheard of the quarrel?â€�

â€œI really do not remember hearing anything.â€�

â€œDo you mean to say you did not hear voices?â€�

â€œOh, yes, I heard the voices, but I did not hear what they said.â€� A
faint spot of colour came into her cheek. â€œI am not in the habit of
listening to private conversations.â€�

The Coroner persisted.

â€œAnd you remember nothing at all? _Nothing_, Mrs. Cavendish? Not one
stray word or phrase to make you realize that it _was_ a private
conversation?â€�

She paused, and seemed to reflect, still outwardly as calm as ever.

â€œYes; I remember. Mrs. Inglethorp said somethingâ€”I do not remember
exactly whatâ€”about causing scandal between husband and wife.â€�

â€œAh!â€� the Coroner leant back satisfied. â€œThat corresponds with what
Dorcas heard. But excuse me, Mrs. Cavendish, although you realized it
was a private conversation, you did not move away? You remained where
you were?â€�

I caught the momentary gleam of her tawny eyes as she raised them. I
felt certain that at that moment she would willingly have torn the
little lawyer, with his insinuations, into pieces, but she replied
quietly enough:

â€œNo. I was very comfortable where I was. I fixed my mind on my book.â€�

â€œAnd that is all you can tell us?â€�

â€œThat is all.â€�

The examination was over, though I doubted if the Coroner was entirely
satisfied with it. I think he suspected that Mary Cavendish could tell
more if she chose.

Amy Hill, shop assistant, was next called, and deposed to having sold a
will form on the afternoon of the 17th to William Earl, under-gardener
at Styles.

William Earl and Manning succeeded her, and testified to witnessing a
document. Manning fixed the time at about four-thirty, William was of
the opinion that it was rather earlier.

Cynthia Murdoch came next. She had, however, little to tell. She had
known nothing of the tragedy, until awakened by Mrs. Cavendish.

â€œYou did not hear the table fall?â€�

â€œNo. I was fast asleep.â€�

The Coroner smiled.

â€œA good conscience makes a sound sleeper,â€� he observed. â€œThank you,
Miss Murdoch, that is all.â€�

â€œMiss Howard.â€�

Miss Howard produced the letter written to her by Mrs. Inglethorp on
the evening of the 17th. Poirot and I had, of course already seen it.
It added nothing to our knowledge of the tragedy. The following is a
facsimile:

STYLES COURT
ESSEX
hand written note:

     July 17th
     My dear Evelyn
     Can we not bury
     the hachet? I have
     found it hard to forgive
     the things you said
     against my dear husband
     but I am an old woman
     & very fond of you
     Yours affectionately,
    Emily Inglethorpe


It was handed to the jury who scrutinized it attentively.

â€œI fear it does not help us much,â€� said the Coroner, with a sigh.
â€œThere is no mention of any of the events of that afternoon.â€�

â€œPlain as a pikestaff to me,â€� said Miss Howard shortly. â€œIt shows
clearly enough that my poor old friend had just found out sheâ€™d been
made a fool of!â€�

â€œIt says nothing of the kind in the letter,â€� the Coroner pointed out.

â€œNo, because Emily never could bear to put herself in the wrong. But
_I_ know her. She wanted me back. But she wasnâ€™t going to own that Iâ€™d
been right. She went round about. Most people do. Donâ€™t believe in it
myself.â€�

Mr. Wells smiled faintly. So, I noticed, did several of the jury. Miss
Howard was obviously quite a public character.

â€œAnyway, all this tomfoolery is a great waste of time,â€� continued the
lady, glancing up and down the jury disparagingly. â€œTalkâ€”talkâ€”talk!
When all the time we know perfectly wellâ€”â€”â€�

The Coroner interrupted her in an agony of apprehension:

â€œThank you, Miss Howard, that is all.â€�

I fancy he breathed a sigh of relief when she complied.

Then came the sensation of the day. The Coroner called Albert Mace,
chemistâ€™s assistant.

It was our agitated young man of the pale face. In answer to the
Coronerâ€™s questions, he explained that he was a qualified pharmacist,
but had only recently come to this particular shop, as the assistant
formerly there had just been called up for the army.

These preliminaries completed, the Coroner proceeded to business.

â€œMr. Mace, have you lately sold strychnine to any unauthorized person?â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€�

â€œWhen was this?â€�

â€œLast Monday night.â€�

â€œMonday? Not Tuesday?â€�

â€œNo, sir, Monday, the 16th.â€�

â€œWill you tell us to whom you sold it?â€�

You could have heard a pin drop.

â€œYes, sir. It was to Mr. Inglethorp.â€�

Every eye turned simultaneously to where Alfred Inglethorp was sitting,
impassive and wooden. He started slightly, as the damning words fell
from the young manâ€™s lips. I half thought he was going to rise from his
chair, but he remained seated, although a remarkably well acted
expression of astonishment rose on his face.

â€œYou are sure of what you say?â€� asked the Coroner sternly.

â€œQuite sure, sir.â€�

â€œAre you in the habit of selling strychnine indiscriminately over the
counter?â€�

The wretched young man wilted visibly under the Coronerâ€™s frown.

â€œOh, no, sirâ€”of course not. But, seeing it was Mr. Inglethorp of the
Hall, I thought there was no harm in it. He said it was to poison a
dog.â€�

Inwardly I sympathized. It was only human nature to endeavour to please
â€œThe Hallâ€�â€”especially when it might result in custom being transferred
from Cootâ€™s to the local establishment.

â€œIs it not customary for anyone purchasing poison to sign a book?â€�

â€œYes, sir, Mr. Inglethorp did so.â€�

â€œHave you got the book here?â€�

â€œYes, sir.â€�

It was produced; and, with a few words of stern censure, the Coroner
dismissed the wretched Mr. Mace.

Then, amidst a breathless silence, Alfred Inglethorp was called. Did he
realize, I wondered, how closely the halter was being drawn around his
neck?

The Coroner went straight to the point.

â€œOn Monday evening last, did you purchase strychnine for the purpose of
poisoning a dog?â€�

Inglethorp replied with perfect calmness:

â€œNo, I did not. There is no dog at Styles, except an outdoor sheepdog,
which is in perfect health.â€�

â€œYou deny absolutely having purchased strychnine from Albert Mace on
Monday last?â€�

â€œI do.â€�

â€œDo you also deny _this_?â€�

The Coroner handed him the register in which his signature was
inscribed.

â€œCertainly I do. The hand-writing is quite different from mine. I will
show you.â€�

He took an old envelope out of his pocket, and wrote his name on it,
handing it to the jury. It was certainly utterly dissimilar.

â€œThen what is your explanation of Mr. Maceâ€™s statement?â€�

Alfred Inglethorp replied imperturbably:

â€œMr. Mace must have been mistaken.â€�

The Coroner hesitated for a moment, and then said:

â€œMr. Inglethorp, as a mere matter of form, would you mind telling us
where you were on the evening of Monday, July 16th?â€�

â€œReallyâ€”I cannot remember.â€�

â€œThat is absurd, Mr. Inglethorp,â€� said the Coroner sharply. â€œThink
again.â€�

Inglethorp shook his head.

â€œI cannot tell you. I have an idea that I was out walking.â€�

â€œIn what direction?â€�

â€œI really canâ€™t remember.â€�

The Coronerâ€™s face grew graver.

â€œWere you in company with anyone?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œDid you meet anyone on your walk?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œThat is a pity,â€� said the Coroner dryly. â€œI am to take it then that
you decline to say where you were at the time that Mr. Mace positively
recognized you as entering the shop to purchase strychnine?â€�

â€œIf you like to take it that way, yes.â€�

â€œBe careful, Mr. Inglethorp.â€�

Poirot was fidgeting nervously.

â€œ_SacrÃ©!_â€� he murmured. â€œDoes this imbecile of a man _want_ to be
arrested?â€�

Inglethorp was indeed creating a bad impression. His futile denials
would not have convinced a child. The Coroner, however, passed briskly
to the next point, and Poirot drew a deep breath of relief.

â€œYou had a discussion with your wife on Tuesday afternoon?â€�

â€œPardon me,â€� interrupted Alfred Inglethorp, â€œyou have been misinformed.
I had no quarrel with my dear wife. The whole story is absolutely
untrue. I was absent from the house the entire afternoon.â€�

â€œHave you anyone who can testify to that?â€�

â€œYou have my word,â€� said Inglethorp haughtily.

The Coroner did not trouble to reply.

â€œThere are two witnesses who will swear to having heard your
disagreement with Mrs. Inglethorp.â€�

â€œThose witnesses were mistaken.â€�

I was puzzled. The man spoke with such quiet assurance that I was
staggered. I looked at Poirot. There was an expression of exultation on
his face which I could not understand. Was he at last convinced of
Alfred Inglethorpâ€™s guilt?

â€œMr. Inglethorp,â€� said the Coroner, â€œyou have heard your wifeâ€™s dying
words repeated here. Can you explain them in any way?â€�

â€œCertainly I can.â€�

â€œYou can?â€�

â€œIt seems to me very simple. The room was dimly lighted. Dr. Bauerstein
is much of my height and build, and, like me, wears a beard. In the dim
light, and suffering as she was, my poor wife mistook him for me.â€�

â€œAh!â€� murmured Poirot to himself. â€œBut it is an idea, that!â€�

â€œYou think it is true?â€� I whispered.

â€œI do not say that. But it is truly an ingenious supposition.â€�

â€œYou read my wifeâ€™s last words as an accusationâ€�â€”Inglethorp was
continuingâ€”â€œthey were, on the contrary, an appeal to me.â€�

The Coroner reflected a moment, then he said:

â€œI believe, Mr. Inglethorp, that you yourself poured out the coffee,
and took it to your wife that evening?â€�

â€œI poured it out, yes. But I did not take it to her. I meant to do so,
but I was told that a friend was at the hall door, so I laid down the
coffee on the hall table. When I came through the hall again a few
minutes later, it was gone.â€�

This statement might, or might not, be true, but it did not seem to me
to improve matters much for Inglethorp. In any case, he had had ample
time to introduce the poison.

At that point, Poirot nudged me gently, indicating two men who were
sitting together near the door. One was a little, sharp, dark,
ferret-faced man, the other was tall and fair.

I questioned Poirot mutely. He put his lips to my ear.

â€œDo you know who that little man is?â€�

I shook my head.

â€œThat is Detective Inspector James Japp of Scotland Yardâ€”Jimmy Japp.
The other man is from Scotland Yard too. Things are moving quickly, my
friend.â€�

I stared at the two men intently. There was certainly nothing of the
policeman about them. I should never have suspected them of being
official personages.

I was still staring, when I was startled and recalled by the verdict
being given:

â€œWilful Murder against some person or persons unknown.â€�






CHAPTER VII. POIROT PAYS HIS DEBTS

As we came out of the Stylites Arms, Poirot drew me aside by a gentle
pressure of the arm. I understood his object. He was waiting for the
Scotland Yard men.

In a few moments, they emerged, and Poirot at once stepped forward, and
accosted the shorter of the two.

â€œI fear you do not remember me, Inspector Japp.â€�

â€œWhy, if it isnâ€™t Mr. Poirot!â€� cried the Inspector. He turned to the
other man. â€œYouâ€™ve heard me speak of Mr. Poirot? It was in 1904 he and
I worked togetherâ€”the Abercrombie forgery caseâ€”you remember, he was run
down in Brussels. Ah, those were great days, moosier. Then, do you
remember â€˜Baronâ€™ Altara? There was a pretty rogue for you! He eluded
the clutches of half the police in Europe. But we nailed him in
Antwerpâ€”thanks to Mr. Poirot here.â€�

As these friendly reminiscences were being indulged in, I drew nearer,
and was introduced to Detective-Inspector Japp, who, in his turn,
introduced us both to his companion, Superintendent Summerhaye.

â€œI need hardly ask what you are doing here, gentlemen,â€� remarked
Poirot.

Japp closed one eye knowingly.

â€œNo, indeed. Pretty clear case I should say.â€�

But Poirot answered gravely:

â€œThere I differ from you.â€�

â€œOh, come!â€� said Summerhaye, opening his lips for the first time.
â€œSurely the whole thing is clear as daylight. The manâ€™s caught
red-handed. How he could be such a fool beats me!â€�

But Japp was looking attentively at Poirot.

â€œHold your fire, Summerhaye,â€� he remarked jocularly. â€œMe and Moosier
here have met beforeâ€”and thereâ€™s no manâ€™s judgment Iâ€™d sooner take than
his. If Iâ€™m not greatly mistaken, heâ€™s got something up his sleeve.
Isnâ€™t that so, moosier?â€�

Poirot smiled.

â€œI have drawn certain conclusionsâ€”yes.â€�

Summerhaye was still looking rather sceptical, but Japp continued his
scrutiny of Poirot.

â€œItâ€™s this way,â€� he said, â€œso far, weâ€™ve only seen the case from the
outside. Thatâ€™s where the Yardâ€™s at a disadvantage in a case of this
kind, where the murderâ€™s only out, so to speak, after the inquest. A
lot depends on being on the spot first thing, and thatâ€™s where Mr.
Poirotâ€™s had the start of us. We shouldnâ€™t have been here as soon as
this even, if it hadnâ€™t been for the fact that there was a smart doctor
on the spot, who gave us the tip through the Coroner. But youâ€™ve been
on the spot from the first, and you may have picked up some little
hints. From the evidence at the inquest, Mr. Inglethorp murdered his
wife as sure as I stand here, and if anyone but you hinted the contrary
Iâ€™d laugh in his face. I must say I was surprised the jury didnâ€™t bring
it in Wilful Murder against him right off. I think they would have, if
it hadnâ€™t been for the Coronerâ€”he seemed to be holding them back.â€�

â€œPerhaps, though, you have a warrant for his arrest in your pocket
now,â€� suggested Poirot.

A kind of wooden shutter of officialdom came down from Jappâ€™s
expressive countenance.

â€œPerhaps I have, and perhaps I havenâ€™t,â€� he remarked dryly.

Poirot looked at him thoughtfully.

â€œI am very anxious, Messieurs, that he should not be arrested.â€�

â€œI dare say,â€� observed Summerhaye sarcastically.

Japp was regarding Poirot with comical perplexity.

â€œCanâ€™t you go a little further, Mr. Poirot? A winkâ€™s as good as a
nodâ€”from you. Youâ€™ve been on the spotâ€”and the Yard doesnâ€™t want to make
any mistakes, you know.â€�

Poirot nodded gravely.

â€œThat is exactly what I thought. Well, I will tell you this. Use your
warrant: Arrest Mr. Inglethorp. But it will bring you no kudosâ€”the case
against him will be dismissed at once! _Comme Ã§a!_â€� And he snapped his
fingers expressively.

Jappâ€™s face grew grave, though Summerhaye gave an incredulous snort.

As for me, I was literally dumb with astonishment. I could only
conclude that Poirot was mad.

Japp had taken out a handkerchief, and was gently dabbing his brow.

â€œI darenâ€™t do it, Mr. Poirot. _I_â€™d take your word, but thereâ€™s others
over me whoâ€™ll be asking what the devil I mean by it. Canâ€™t you give me
a little more to go on?â€�

Poirot reflected a moment.

â€œIt can be done,â€� he said at last. â€œI admit I do not wish it. It forces
my hand. I would have preferred to work in the dark just for the
present, but what you say is very justâ€”the word of a Belgian policeman,
whose day is past, is not enough! And Alfred Inglethorp must not be
arrested. That I have sworn, as my friend Hastings here knows. See,
then, my good Japp, you go at once to Styles?â€�

â€œWell, in about half an hour. Weâ€™re seeing the Coroner and the doctor
first.â€�

â€œGood. Call for me in passingâ€”the last house in the village. I will go
with you. At Styles, Mr. Inglethorp will give you, or if he refusesâ€”as
is probableâ€”I will give you such proofs that shall satisfy you that the
case against him could not possibly be sustained. Is that a bargain?â€�

â€œThatâ€™s a bargain,â€� said Japp heartily. â€œAnd, on behalf of the Yard,
Iâ€™m much obliged to you, though Iâ€™m bound to confess I canâ€™t at present
see the faintest possible loop-hole in the evidence, but you always
were a marvel! So long, then, moosier.â€�

The two detectives strode away, Summerhaye with an incredulous grin on
his face.

â€œWell, my friend,â€� cried Poirot, before I could get in a word, â€œwhat do
you think? _Mon Dieu!_ I had some warm moments in that court; I did not
figure to myself that the man would be so pig-headed as to refuse to
say anything at all. Decidedly, it was the policy of an imbecile.â€�

â€œHâ€™m! There are other explanations besides that of imbecility,â€� I
remarked. â€œFor, if the case against him is true, how could he defend
himself except by silence?â€�

â€œWhy, in a thousand ingenious ways,â€� cried Poirot. â€œSee; say that it is
I who have committed this murder, I can think of seven most plausible
stories! Far more convincing than Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s stony denials!â€�

I could not help laughing.

â€œMy dear Poirot, I am sure you are capable of thinking of seventy! But,
seriously, in spite of what I heard you say to the detectives, you
surely cannot still believe in the possibility of Alfred Inglethorpâ€™s
innocence?â€�

â€œWhy not now as much as before? Nothing has changed.â€�

â€œBut the evidence is so conclusive.â€�

â€œYes, too conclusive.â€�

We turned in at the gate of Leastways Cottage, and proceeded up the now
familiar stairs.

â€œYes, yes, too conclusive,â€� continued Poirot, almost to himself. â€œReal
evidence is usually vague and unsatisfactory. It has to be
examinedâ€”sifted. But here the whole thing is cut and dried. No, my
friend, this evidence has been very cleverly manufacturedâ€”so cleverly
that it has defeated its own ends.â€�

â€œHow do you make that out?â€�

â€œBecause, so long as the evidence against him was vague and intangible,
it was very hard to disprove. But, in his anxiety, the criminal has
drawn the net so closely that one cut will set Inglethorp free.â€�

I was silent. And in a minute or two, Poirot continued:

â€œLet us look at the matter like this. Here is a man, let us say, who
sets out to poison his wife. He has lived by his wits as the saying
goes. Presumably, therefore, he has some wits. He is not altogether a
fool. Well, how does he set about it? He goes boldly to the village
chemistâ€™s and purchases strychnine under his own name, with a trumped
up story about a dog which is bound to be proved absurd. He does not
employ the poison that night. No, he waits until he has had a violent
quarrel with her, of which the whole household is cognisant, and which
naturally directs their suspicions upon him. He prepares no defenceâ€”no
shadow of an alibi, yet he knows the chemistâ€™s assistant must
necessarily come forward with the facts. Bah! Do not ask me to believe
that any man could be so idiotic! Only a lunatic, who wished to commit
suicide by causing himself to be hanged, would act so!â€�

â€œStillâ€”I do not seeâ€”â€”â€� I began.

â€œNeither do I see. I tell you, _mon ami_, it puzzles me. _Me_â€”Hercule
Poirot!â€�

â€œBut if you believe him innocent, how do you explain his buying the
strychnine?â€�

â€œVery simply. He did _not_ buy it.â€�

â€œBut Mace recognized him!â€�

â€œI beg your pardon, he saw a man with a black beard like Mr.
Inglethorpâ€™s, and wearing glasses like Mr. Inglethorp, and dressed in
Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s rather noticeable clothes. He could not recognize a
man whom he had probably only seen in the distance, since, you
remember, he himself had only been in the village a fortnight, and Mrs.
Inglethorp dealt principally with Cootâ€™s in Tadminster.â€�

â€œThen you thinkâ€”â€”â€�

â€œ_Mon ami_, do you remember the two points I laid stress upon? Leave
the first one for the moment, what was the second?â€�

â€œThe important fact that Alfred Inglethorp wears peculiar clothes, has
a black beard, and uses glasses,â€� I quoted.

â€œExactly. Now suppose anyone wished to pass himself off as John or
Lawrence Cavendish. Would it be easy?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I said thoughtfully. â€œOf course an actorâ€”â€”â€�

But Poirot cut me short ruthlessly.

â€œAnd why would it not be easy? I will tell you, my friend: Because they
are both clean-shaven men. To make up successfully as one of these two
in broad daylight, it would need an actor of genius, and a certain
initial facial resemblance. But in the case of Alfred Inglethorp, all
that is changed. His clothes, his beard, the glasses which hide his
eyesâ€”those are the salient points about his personal appearance. Now,
what is the first instinct of the criminal? To divert suspicion from
himself, is it not so? And how can he best do that? By throwing it on
someone else. In this instance, there was a man ready to his hand.
Everybody was predisposed to believe in Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s guilt. It was
a foregone conclusion that he would be suspected; but, to make it a
sure thing there must be tangible proofâ€”such as the actual buying of
the poison, and that, with a man of the peculiar appearance of Mr.
Inglethorp, was not difficult. Remember, this young Mace had never
actually spoken to Mr. Inglethorp. How should he doubt that the man in
his clothes, with his beard and his glasses, was not Alfred
Inglethorp?â€�

â€œIt may be so,â€� I said, fascinated by Poirotâ€™s eloquence. â€œBut, if that
was the case, why does he not say where he was at six oâ€™clock on Monday
evening?â€�

â€œAh, why indeed?â€� said Poirot, calming down. â€œIf he were arrested, he
probably would speak, but I do not want it to come to that. I must make
him see the gravity of his position. There is, of course, something
discreditable behind his silence. If he did not murder his wife, he is,
nevertheless, a scoundrel, and has something of his own to conceal,
quite apart from the murder.â€�

â€œWhat can it be?â€� I mused, won over to Poirotâ€™s views for the moment,
although still retaining a faint conviction that the obvious deduction
was the correct one.

â€œCan you not guess?â€� asked Poirot, smiling.

â€œNo, can you?â€�

â€œOh, yes, I had a little idea sometime agoâ€”and it has turned out to be
correct.â€�

â€œYou never told me,â€� I said reproachfully.

Poirot spread out his hands apologetically.

â€œPardon me, _mon ami_, you were not precisely _sympathique_.â€� He turned
to me earnestly. â€œTell meâ€”you see now that he must not be arrested?â€�

â€œPerhaps,â€� I said doubtfully, for I was really quite indifferent to the
fate of Alfred Inglethorp, and thought that a good fright would do him
no harm.

Poirot, who was watching me intently, gave a sigh.

â€œCome, my friend,â€� he said, changing the subject, â€œapart from Mr.
Inglethorp, how did the evidence at the inquest strike you?â€�

â€œOh, pretty much what I expected.â€�

â€œDid nothing strike you as peculiar about it?â€�

My thoughts flew to Mary Cavendish, and I hedged:

â€œIn what way?â€�

â€œWell, Mr. Lawrence Cavendishâ€™s evidence for instance?â€�

I was relieved.

â€œOh, Lawrence! No, I donâ€™t think so. Heâ€™s always a nervous chap.â€�

â€œHis suggestion that his mother might have been poisoned accidentally
by means of the tonic she was taking, that did not strike you as
strangeâ€” _hein?_â€�

â€œNo, I canâ€™t say it did. The doctors ridiculed it of course. But it was
quite a natural suggestion for a layman to make.â€�

â€œBut Monsieur Lawrence is not a layman. You told me yourself that he
had started by studying medicine, and that he had taken his degree.â€�

â€œYes, thatâ€™s true. I never thought of that.â€� I was rather startled. â€œIt
_is_ odd.â€�

Poirot nodded.

â€œFrom the first, his behaviour has been peculiar. Of all the household,
he alone would be likely to recognize the symptoms of strychnine
poisoning, and yet we find him the only member of the family to uphold
strenuously the theory of death from natural causes. If it had been
Monsieur John, I could have understood it. He has no technical
knowledge, and is by nature unimaginative. But Monsieur Lawrenceâ€”no!
And now, to-day, he puts forward a suggestion that he himself must have
known was ridiculous. There is food for thought in this, _mon ami!_â€�

â€œItâ€™s very confusing,â€� I agreed.

â€œThen there is Mrs. Cavendish,â€� continued Poirot. â€œThatâ€™s another who
is not telling all she knows! What do you make of her attitude?â€�

â€œI donâ€™t know what to make of it. It seems inconceivable that she
should be shielding Alfred Inglethorp. Yet that is what it looks like.â€�

Poirot nodded reflectively.

â€œYes, it is queer. One thing is certain, she overheard a good deal more
of that â€˜private conversationâ€™ than she was willing to admit.â€�

â€œAnd yet she is the last person one would accuse of stooping to
eavesdrop!â€�

â€œExactly. One thing her evidence _has_ shown me. I made a mistake.
Dorcas was quite right. The quarrel did take place earlier in the
afternoon, about four oâ€™clock, as she said.â€�

I looked at him curiously. I had never understood his insistence on
that point.

â€œYes, a good deal that was peculiar came out to-day,â€� continued Poirot.
â€œDr. Bauerstein, now, what was _he_ doing up and dressed at that hour
in the morning? It is astonishing to me that no one commented on the
fact.â€�

â€œHe has insomnia, I believe,â€� I said doubtfully.

â€œWhich is a very good, or a very bad explanation,â€� remarked Poirot. â€œIt
covers everything, and explains nothing. I shall keep my eye on our
clever Dr. Bauerstein.â€�

â€œAny more faults to find with the evidence?â€� I inquired satirically.

â€œ_Mon ami_,â€� replied Poirot gravely, â€œwhen you find that people are not
telling you the truthâ€”look out! Now, unless I am much mistaken, at the
inquest to-day only oneâ€”at most, two persons were speaking the truth
without reservation or subterfuge.â€�

â€œOh, come now, Poirot! I wonâ€™t cite Lawrence, or Mrs. Cavendish. But
thereâ€™s Johnâ€”and Miss Howard, surely they were speaking the truth?â€�

â€œBoth of them, my friend? One, I grant you, but bothâ€”â€”!â€�

His words gave me an unpleasant shock. Miss Howardâ€™s evidence,
unimportant as it was, had been given in such a downright
straightforward manner that it had never occurred to me to doubt her
sincerity. Still, I had a great respect for Poirotâ€™s sagacityâ€”except on
the occasions when he was what I described to myself as â€œfoolishly
pig-headed.â€�

â€œDo you really think so?â€� I asked. â€œMiss Howard had always seemed to me
so essentially honestâ€”almost uncomfortably so.â€�

Poirot gave me a curious look, which I could not quite fathom. He
seemed to speak, and then checked himself.

â€œMiss Murdoch too,â€� I continued, â€œthereâ€™s nothing untruthful about
_her_.â€�

â€œNo. But it was strange that she never heard a sound, sleeping next
door; whereas Mrs. Cavendish, in the other wing of the building,
distinctly heard the table fall.â€�

â€œWell, sheâ€™s young. And she sleeps soundly.â€�

â€œAh, yes, indeed! She must be a famous sleeper, that one!â€�

I did not quite like the tone of his voice, but at that moment a smart
knock reached our ears, and looking out of the window we perceived the
two detectives waiting for us below.

Poirot seized his hat, gave a ferocious twist to his moustache, and,
carefully brushing an imaginary speck of dust from his sleeve, motioned
me to precede him down the stairs; there we joined the detectives and
set out for Styles.

I think the appearance of the two Scotland Yard men was rather a
shockâ€”especially to John, though of course after the verdict, he had
realized that it was only a matter of time. Still, the presence of the
detectives brought the truth home to him more than anything else could
have done.

Poirot had conferred with Japp in a low tone on the way up, and it was
the latter functionary who requested that the household, with the
exception of the servants, should be assembled together in the
drawing-room. I realized the significance of this. It was up to Poirot
to make his boast good.

Personally, I was not sanguine. Poirot might have excellent reasons for
his belief in Inglethorpâ€™s innocence, but a man of the type of
Summerhaye would require tangible proofs, and these I doubted if Poirot
could supply.

Before very long we had all trooped into the drawing-room, the door of
which Japp closed. Poirot politely set chairs for everyone. The
Scotland Yard men were the cynosure of all eyes. I think that for the
first time we realized that the thing was not a bad dream, but a
tangible reality. We had read of such thingsâ€”now we ourselves were
actors in the drama. To-morrow the daily papers, all over England,
would blazon out the news in staring headlines:

â€œMYSTERIOUS TRAGEDY IN ESSEXâ€�

    â€œWEALTHY LADY POISONEDâ€�


There would be pictures of Styles, snap-shots of â€œThe family leaving
the Inquestâ€�â€”the village photographer had not been idle! All the things
that one had read a hundred timesâ€”things that happen to other people,
not to oneself. And now, in this house, a murder had been committed. In
front of us were â€œthe detectives in charge of the case.â€� The well-known
glib phraseology passed rapidly through my mind in the interval before
Poirot opened the proceedings.

I think everyone was a little surprised that it should be he and not
one of the official detectives who took the initiative.

â€œ_Mesdames_ and _messieurs_,â€� said Poirot, bowing as though he were a
celebrity about to deliver a lecture, â€œI have asked you to come here
all together, for a certain object. That object, it concerns Mr. Alfred
Inglethorp.â€�

Inglethorp was sitting a little by himselfâ€”I think, unconsciously,
everyone had drawn his chair slightly away from himâ€”and he gave a faint
start as Poirot pronounced his name.

â€œMr. Inglethorp,â€� said Poirot, addressing him directly, â€œa very dark
shadow is resting on this houseâ€”the shadow of murder.â€�

Inglethorp shook his head sadly.

â€œMy poor wife,â€� he murmured. â€œPoor Emily! It is terrible.â€�

â€œI do not think, monsieur,â€� said Poirot pointedly, â€œthat you quite
realize how terrible it may beâ€”for you.â€� And as Inglethorp did not
appear to understand, he added: â€œMr. Inglethorp, you are standing in
very grave danger.â€�

The two detectives fidgeted. I saw the official caution â€œAnything you
say will be used in evidence against you,â€� actually hovering on
Summerhayeâ€™s lips. Poirot went on.

â€œDo you understand now, monsieur?â€�

â€œNo. What do you mean?â€�

â€œI mean,â€� said Poirot deliberately, â€œthat you are suspected of
poisoning your wife.â€�

A little gasp ran round the circle at this plain speaking.

â€œGood heavens!â€� cried Inglethorp, starting up. â€œWhat a monstrous idea!
_I_â€”poison my dearest Emily!â€�

â€œI do not thinkâ€�â€”Poirot watched him narrowlyâ€”â€œthat you quite realize
the unfavourable nature of your evidence at the inquest. Mr.
Inglethorp, knowing what I have now told you, do you still refuse to
say where you were at six oâ€™clock on Monday afternoon?â€�

With a groan, Alfred Inglethorp sank down again and buried his face in
his hands. Poirot approached and stood over him.

â€œSpeak!â€� he cried menacingly.

With an effort, Inglethorp raised his face from his hands. Then, slowly
and deliberately, he shook his head.

â€œYou will not speak?â€�

â€œNo. I do not believe that anyone could be so monstrous as to accuse me
of what you say.â€�

Poirot nodded thoughtfully, like a man whose mind is made up.

â€œ_Soit!_â€� he said. â€œThen I must speak for you.â€�

Alfred Inglethorp sprang up again.

â€œYou? How can you speak? You do not knowâ€”â€”â€� he broke off abruptly.

Poirot turned to face us. â€œ_Mesdames_ and _messieurs_! I speak! Listen!
I, Hercule Poirot, affirm that the man who entered the chemistâ€™s shop,
and purchased strychnine at six oâ€™clock on Monday last was not Mr.
Inglethorp, for at six oâ€™clock on that day Mr. Inglethorp was escorting
Mrs. Raikes back to her home from a neighbouring farm. I can produce no
less than five witnesses to swear to having seen them together, either
at six or just after and, as you may know, the Abbey Farm, Mrs.
Raikesâ€™s home, is at least two and a half miles distant from the
village. There is absolutely no question as to the alibi!â€�






CHAPTER VIII. FRESH SUSPICIONS

There was a momentâ€™s stupefied silence. Japp, who was the least
surprised of any of us, was the first to speak.

â€œMy word,â€� he cried, â€œyouâ€™re the goods! And no mistake, Mr. Poirot!
These witnesses of yours are all right, I suppose?â€�

â€œ_VoilÃ !_ I have prepared a list of themâ€”names and addresses. You must
see them, of course. But you will find it all right.â€�

â€œIâ€™m sure of that.â€� Japp lowered his voice. â€œIâ€™m much obliged to you. A
pretty mareâ€™s nest arresting him would have been.â€� He turned to
Inglethorp. â€œBut, if youâ€™ll excuse me, sir, why couldnâ€™t you say all
this at the inquest?â€�

â€œI will tell you why,â€� interrupted Poirot. â€œThere was a certain
rumourâ€”â€”â€�

â€œA most malicious and utterly untrue one,â€� interrupted Alfred
Inglethorp in an agitated voice.

â€œAnd Mr. Inglethorp was anxious to have no scandal revived just at
present. Am I right?â€�

â€œQuite right.â€� Inglethorp nodded. â€œWith my poor Emily not yet buried,
can you wonder I was anxious that no more lying rumours should be
started.â€�

â€œBetween you and me, sir,â€� remarked Japp, â€œIâ€™d sooner have any amount
of rumours than be arrested for murder. And I venture to think your
poor lady would have felt the same. And, if it hadnâ€™t been for Mr.
Poirot here, arrested you would have been, as sure as eggs is eggs!â€�

â€œI was foolish, no doubt,â€� murmured Inglethorp. â€œBut you do not know,
inspector, how I have been persecuted and maligned.â€� And he shot a
baleful glance at Evelyn Howard.

â€œNow, sir,â€� said Japp, turning briskly to John, â€œI should like to see
the ladyâ€™s bedroom, please, and after that Iâ€™ll have a little chat with
the servants. Donâ€™t you bother about anything. Mr. Poirot, here, will
show me the way.â€�

As they all went out of the room, Poirot turned and made me a sign to
follow him upstairs. There he caught me by the arm, and drew me aside.

â€œQuick, go to the other wing. Stand thereâ€”just this side of the baize
door. Do not move till I come.â€� Then, turning rapidly, he rejoined the
two detectives.

I followed his instructions, taking up my position by the baize door,
and wondering what on earth lay behind the request. Why was I to stand
in this particular spot on guard? I looked thoughtfully down the
corridor in front of me. An idea struck me. With the exception of
Cynthia Murdochâ€™s, everyoneâ€™s room was in this left wing. Had that
anything to do with it? Was I to report who came or went? I stood
faithfully at my post. The minutes passed. Nobody came. Nothing
happened.

It must have been quite twenty minutes before Poirot rejoined me.

â€œYou have not stirred?â€�

â€œNo, Iâ€™ve stuck here like a rock. Nothingâ€™s happened.â€�

â€œAh!â€� Was he pleased, or disappointed? â€œYouâ€™ve seen nothing at all?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œBut you have probably heard something? A big bumpâ€”eh, _mon ami?_â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œIs it possible? Ah, but I am vexed with myself! I am not usually
clumsy. I made but a slight gestureâ€�â€”I know Poirotâ€™s gesturesâ€”â€œwith the
left hand, and over went the table by the bed!â€�

He looked so childishly vexed and crest-fallen that I hastened to
console him.

â€œNever mind, old chap. What does it matter? Your triumph downstairs
excited you. I can tell you, that was a surprise to us all. There must
be more in this affair of Inglethorpâ€™s with Mrs. Raikes than we
thought, to make him hold his tongue so persistently. What are you
going to do now? Where are the Scotland Yard fellows?â€�

â€œGone down to interview the servants. I showed them all our exhibits. I
am disappointed in Japp. He has no method!â€�

â€œHullo!â€� I said, looking out of the window. â€œHereâ€™s Dr. Bauerstein. I
believe youâ€™re right about that man, Poirot. I donâ€™t like him.â€�

â€œHe is clever,â€� observed Poirot meditatively.

â€œOh, clever as the devil! I must say I was overjoyed to see him in the
plight he was in on Tuesday. You never saw such a spectacle!â€� And I
described the doctorâ€™s adventure. â€œHe looked a regular scarecrow!
Plastered with mud from head to foot.â€�

â€œYou saw him, then?â€�

â€œYes. Of course, he didnâ€™t want to come inâ€”it was just after dinnerâ€”but
Mr. Inglethorp insisted.â€�

â€œWhat?â€� Poirot caught me violently by the shoulders. â€œWas Dr.
Bauerstein here on Tuesday evening? Here? And you never told me? Why
did you not tell me? Why? Why?â€�

He appeared to be in an absolute frenzy.

â€œMy dear Poirot,â€� I expostulated, â€œI never thought it would interest
you. I didnâ€™t know it was of any importance.â€�

â€œImportance? It is of the first importance! So Dr. Bauerstein was here
on Tuesday nightâ€”the night of the murder. Hastings, do you not see?
That alters everythingâ€”everything!â€�

I had never seen him so upset. Loosening his hold of me, he
mechanically straightened a pair of candlesticks, still murmuring to
himself: â€œYes, that alters everythingâ€”everything.â€�

Suddenly he seemed to come to a decision.

â€œ_Allons!_â€� he said. â€œWe must act at once. Where is Mr. Cavendish?â€�

John was in the smoking-room. Poirot went straight to him.

â€œMr. Cavendish, I have some important business in Tadminster. A new
clue. May I take your motor?â€�

â€œWhy, of course. Do you mean at once?â€�

â€œIf you please.â€�

John rang the bell, and ordered round the car. In another ten minutes,
we were racing down the park and along the high road to Tadminster.

â€œNow, Poirot,â€� I remarked resignedly, â€œperhaps you will tell me what
all this is about?â€�

â€œWell, _mon ami_, a good deal you can guess for yourself. Of course you
realize that, now Mr. Inglethorp is out of it, the whole position is
greatly changed. We are face to face with an entirely new problem. We
know now that there is one person who did not buy the poison. We have
cleared away the manufactured clues. Now for the real ones. I have
ascertained that anyone in the household, with the exception of Mrs.
Cavendish, who was playing tennis with you, could have personated Mr.
Inglethorp on Monday evening. In the same way, we have his statement
that he put the coffee down in the hall. No one took much notice of
that at the inquestâ€”but now it has a very different significance. We
must find out who did take that coffee to Mrs. Inglethorp eventually,
or who passed through the hall whilst it was standing there. From your
account, there are only two people whom we can positively say did not
go near the coffeeâ€”Mrs. Cavendish, and Mademoiselle Cynthia.â€�

â€œYes, that is so.â€� I felt an inexpressible lightening of the heart.
Mary Cavendish could certainly not rest under suspicion.

â€œIn clearing Alfred Inglethorp,â€� continued Poirot, â€œI have been obliged
to show my hand sooner than I intended. As long as I might be thought
to be pursuing him, the criminal would be off his guard. Now, he will
be doubly careful. Yesâ€”doubly careful.â€� He turned to me abruptly. â€œTell
me, Hastings, you yourselfâ€”have you no suspicions of anybody?â€�

I hesitated. To tell the truth, an idea, wild and extravagant in
itself, had once or twice that morning flashed through my brain. I had
rejected it as absurd, nevertheless it persisted.

â€œYou couldnâ€™t call it a suspicion,â€� I murmured. â€œItâ€™s so utterly
foolish.â€�

â€œCome now,â€� urged Poirot encouragingly. â€œDo not fear. Speak your mind.
You should always pay attention to your instincts.â€�

â€œWell then,â€� I blurted out, â€œitâ€™s absurdâ€”but I suspect Miss Howard of
not telling all she knows!â€�

â€œMiss Howard?â€�

â€œYesâ€”youâ€™ll laugh at meâ€”â€”â€�

â€œNot at all. Why should I?â€�

â€œI canâ€™t help feeling,â€� I continued blunderingly; â€œthat weâ€™ve rather
left her out of the possible suspects, simply on the strength of her
having been away from the place. But, after all, she was only fifteen
miles away. A car would do it in half an hour. Can we say positively
that she was away from Styles on the night of the murder?â€�

â€œYes, my friend,â€� said Poirot unexpectedly, â€œwe can. One of my first
actions was to ring up the hospital where she was working.â€�

â€œWell?â€�

â€œWell, I learnt that Miss Howard had been on afternoon duty on Tuesday,
and thatâ€”a convoy coming in unexpectedlyâ€”she had kindly offered to
remain on night duty, which offer was gratefully accepted. That
disposes of that.â€�

â€œOh!â€� I said, rather nonplussed. â€œReally,â€� I continued, â€œitâ€™s her
extraordinary vehemence against Inglethorp that started me off
suspecting her. I canâ€™t help feeling sheâ€™d do anything against him. And
I had an idea she might know something about the destroying of the
will. She might have burnt the new one, mistaking it for the earlier
one in his favour. She is so terribly bitter against him.â€�

â€œYou consider her vehemence unnatural?â€�

â€œYâ€”es. She is so very violent. I wondered really whether she is quite
sane on that point.â€�

Poirot shook his head energetically.

â€œNo, no, you are on a wrong tack there. There is nothing weak-minded or
degenerate about Miss Howard. She is an excellent specimen of
well-balanced English beef and brawn. She is sanity itself.â€�

â€œYet her hatred of Inglethorp seems almost a mania. My idea wasâ€”a very
ridiculous one, no doubtâ€”that she had intended to poison himâ€”and that,
in some way, Mrs. Inglethorp got hold of it by mistake. But I donâ€™t at
all see how it could have been done. The whole thing is absurd and
ridiculous to the last degree.â€�

â€œStill you are right in one thing. It is always wise to suspect
everybody until you can prove logically, and to your own satisfaction,
that they are innocent. Now, what reasons are there against Miss
Howardâ€™s having deliberately poisoned Mrs. Inglethorp?â€�

â€œWhy, she was devoted to her!â€� I exclaimed.

â€œTcha! Tcha!â€� cried Poirot irritably. â€œYou argue like a child. If Miss
Howard were capable of poisoning the old lady, she would be quite
equally capable of simulating devotion. No, we must look elsewhere. You
are perfectly correct in your assumption that her vehemence against
Alfred Inglethorp is too violent to be natural; but you are quite wrong
in the deduction you draw from it. I have drawn my own deductions,
which I believe to be correct, but I will not speak of them at
present.â€� He paused a minute, then went on. â€œNow, to my way of
thinking, there is one insuperable objection to Miss Howardâ€™s being the
murderess.â€�

â€œAnd that is?â€�

â€œThat in no possible way could Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s death benefit Miss
Howard. Now there is no murder without a motive.â€�

I reflected.

â€œCould not Mrs. Inglethorp have made a will in her favour?â€�

Poirot shook his head.

â€œBut you yourself suggested that possibility to Mr. Wells?â€�

Poirot smiled.

â€œThat was for a reason. I did not want to mention the name of the
person who was actually in my mind. Miss Howard occupied very much the
same position, so I used her name instead.â€�

â€œStill, Mrs. Inglethorp might have done so. Why, that will, made on the
afternoon of her death mayâ€”â€”â€�

But Poirotâ€™s shake of the head was so energetic that I stopped.

â€œNo, my friend. I have certain little ideas of my own about that will.
But I can tell you this muchâ€”it was not in Miss Howardâ€™s favour.â€�

I accepted his assurance, though I did not really see how he could be
so positive about the matter.

â€œWell,â€� I said, with a sigh, â€œwe will acquit Miss Howard, then. It is
partly your fault that I ever came to suspect her. It was what you said
about her evidence at the inquest that set me off.â€�

Poirot looked puzzled.

â€œWhat did I say about her evidence at the inquest?â€�

â€œDonâ€™t you remember? When I cited her and John Cavendish as being above
suspicion?â€�

â€œOhâ€”ahâ€”yes.â€� He seemed a little confused, but recovered himself. â€œBy
the way, Hastings, there is something I want you to do for me.â€�

â€œCertainly. What is it?â€�

â€œNext time you happen to be alone with Lawrence Cavendish, I want you
to say this to him. â€˜I have a message for you, from Poirot. He says:
â€œFind the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace!â€�â€™ Nothing more.
Nothing less.â€�

â€œâ€˜Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.â€™ Is that
right?â€� I asked, much mystified.

â€œExcellent.â€�

â€œBut what does it mean?â€�

â€œAh, that I will leave you to find out. You have access to the facts.
Just say that to him, and see what he says.â€�

â€œVery wellâ€”but itâ€™s all extremely mysterious.â€�

We were running into Tadminster now, and Poirot directed the car to the
â€œAnalytical Chemist.â€�

Poirot hopped down briskly, and went inside. In a few minutes he was
back again.

â€œThere,â€� he said. â€œThat is all my business.â€�

â€œWhat were you doing there?â€� I asked, in lively curiosity.

â€œI left something to be analysed.â€�

â€œYes, but what?â€�

â€œThe sample of cocoa I took from the saucepan in the bedroom.â€�

â€œBut that has already been tested!â€� I cried, stupefied. â€œDr. Bauerstein
had it tested, and you yourself laughed at the possibility of there
being strychnine in it.â€�

â€œI know Dr. Bauerstein had it tested,â€� replied Poirot quietly.

â€œWell, then?â€�

â€œWell, I have a fancy for having it analysed again, that is all.â€�

And not another word on the subject could I drag out of him.

This proceeding of Poirotâ€™s, in respect of the cocoa, puzzled me
intensely. I could see neither rhyme nor reason in it. However, my
confidence in him, which at one time had rather waned, was fully
restored since his belief in Alfred Inglethorpâ€™s innocence had been so
triumphantly vindicated.

The funeral of Mrs. Inglethorp took place the following day, and on
Monday, as I came down to a late breakfast, John drew me aside, and
informed me that Mr. Inglethorp was leaving that morning, to take up
his quarters at the Stylites Arms until he should have completed his
plans.

â€œAnd really itâ€™s a great relief to think heâ€™s going, Hastings,â€�
continued my honest friend. â€œIt was bad enough before, when we thought
heâ€™d done it, but Iâ€™m hanged if it isnâ€™t worse now, when we all feel
guilty for having been so down on the fellow. The fact is, weâ€™ve
treated him abominably. Of course, things did look black against him. I
donâ€™t see how anyone could blame us for jumping to the conclusions we
did. Still, there it is, we were in the wrong, and now thereâ€™s a
beastly feeling that one ought to make amends; which is difficult, when
one doesnâ€™t like the fellow a bit better than one did before. The whole
thingâ€™s damned awkward! And Iâ€™m thankful heâ€™s had the tact to take
himself off. Itâ€™s a good thing Styles wasnâ€™t the materâ€™s to leave to
him. Couldnâ€™t bear to think of the fellow lording it here. Heâ€™s welcome
to her money.â€�

â€œYouâ€™ll be able to keep up the place all right?â€� I asked.

â€œOh, yes. There are the death duties, of course, but half my fatherâ€™s
money goes with the place, and Lawrence will stay with us for the
present, so there is his share as well. We shall be pinched at first,
of course, because, as I once told you, I am in a bit of a hole
financially myself. Still, the Johnnies will wait now.â€�

In the general relief at Inglethorpâ€™s approaching departure, we had the
most genial breakfast we had experienced since the tragedy. Cynthia,
whose young spirits were naturally buoyant, was looking quite her
pretty self again, and we all, with the exception of Lawrence, who
seemed unalterably gloomy and nervous, were quietly cheerful, at the
opening of a new and hopeful future.

The papers, of course, had been full of the tragedy. Glaring headlines,
sandwiched biographies of every member of the household, subtle
innuendoes, the usual familiar tag about the police having a clue.
Nothing was spared us. It was a slack time. The war was momentarily
inactive, and the newspapers seized with avidity on this crime in
fashionable life: â€œThe Mysterious Affair at Stylesâ€� was the topic of
the moment.

Naturally it was very annoying for the Cavendishes. The house was
constantly besieged by reporters, who were consistently denied
admission, but who continued to haunt the village and the grounds,
where they lay in wait with cameras, for any unwary members of the
household. We all lived in a blast of publicity. The Scotland Yard men
came and went, examining, questioning, lynx-eyed and reserved of
tongue. Towards what end they were working, we did not know. Had they
any clue, or would the whole thing remain in the category of
undiscovered crimes?

After breakfast, Dorcas came up to me rather mysteriously, and asked if
she might have a few words with me.

â€œCertainly. What is it, Dorcas?â€�

â€œWell, itâ€™s just this, sir. Youâ€™ll be seeing the Belgian gentleman
to-day perhaps?â€� I nodded. â€œWell, sir, you know how he asked me so
particular if the mistress, or anyone else, had a green dress?â€�

â€œYes, yes. You have found one?â€� My interest was aroused.

â€œNo, not that, sir. But since then Iâ€™ve remembered what the young
gentlemenâ€�â€”John and Lawrence were still the â€œyoung gentlemenâ€� to
Dorcasâ€”â€œcall the â€˜dressing-up box.â€™ Itâ€™s up in the front attic, sir. A
great chest, full of old clothes and fancy dresses, and what not. And
it came to me sudden like that there might be a green dress amongst
them. So, if youâ€™d tell the Belgian gentlemanâ€”â€”â€�

â€œI will tell him, Dorcas,â€� I promised.

â€œThank you very much, sir. A very nice gentleman he is, sir. And quite
a different class from them two detectives from London, what goes
prying about, and asking questions. I donâ€™t hold with foreigners as a
rule, but from what the newspapers say I make out as how these brave
Belges isnâ€™t the ordinary run of foreigners, and certainly heâ€™s a most
polite spoken gentleman.â€�

Dear old Dorcas! As she stood there, with her honest face upturned to
mine, I thought what a fine specimen she was of the old-fashioned
servant that is so fast dying out.

I thought I might as well go down to the village at once, and look up
Poirot; but I met him half-way, coming up to the house, and at once
gave him Dorcasâ€™s message.

â€œAh, the brave Dorcas! We will look at the chest, althoughâ€”but no
matterâ€”we will examine it all the same.â€�

We entered the house by one of the windows. There was no one in the
hall, and we went straight up to the attic.

Sure enough, there was the chest, a fine old piece, all studded with
brass nails, and full to overflowing with every imaginable type of
garment.

Poirot bundled everything out on the floor with scant ceremony. There
were one or two green fabrics of varying shades; but Poirot shook his
head over them all. He seemed somewhat apathetic in the search, as
though he expected no great results from it. Suddenly he gave an
exclamation.

â€œWhat is it?â€�

â€œLook!â€�

The chest was nearly empty, and there, reposing right at the bottom,
was a magnificent black beard.

â€œ_OhÃ³!_â€� said Poirot. â€œ_OhÃ³!_â€� He turned it over in his hands,
examining it closely. â€œNew,â€� he remarked. â€œYes, quite new.â€�

After a momentâ€™s hesitation, he replaced it in the chest, heaped all
the other things on top of it as before, and made his way briskly
downstairs. He went straight to the pantry, where we found Dorcas
busily polishing her silver.

Poirot wished her good morning with Gallic politeness, and went on:

â€œWe have been looking through that chest, Dorcas. I am much obliged to
you for mentioning it. There is, indeed, a fine collection there. Are
they often used, may I ask?â€�

â€œWell, sir, not very often nowadays, though from time to time we do
have what the young gentlemen call â€˜a dress-up night.â€™ And very funny
it is sometimes, sir. Mr. Lawrence, heâ€™s wonderful. Most comic! I shall
never forget the night he came down as the Char of Persia, I think he
called itâ€”a sort of Eastern King it was. He had the big paper knife in
his hand, and â€˜Mind, Dorcas,â€™ he says, â€˜youâ€™ll have to be very
respectful. This is my specially sharpened scimitar, and itâ€™s off with
your head if Iâ€™m at all displeased with you!â€™ Miss Cynthia, she was
what they call an Apache, or some such nameâ€”a Frenchified sort of
cut-throat, I take it to be. A real sight she looked. Youâ€™d never have
believed a pretty young lady like that could have made herself into
such a ruffian. Nobody would have known her.â€�

â€œThese evenings must have been great fun,â€� said Poirot genially. â€œI
suppose Mr. Lawrence wore that fine black beard in the chest upstairs,
when he was Shah of Persia?â€�

â€œHe did have a beard, sir,â€� replied Dorcas, smiling. â€œAnd well I know
it, for he borrowed two skeins of my black wool to make it with! And
Iâ€™m sure it looked wonderfully natural at a distance. I didnâ€™t know as
there was a beard up there at all. It must have been got quite lately,
I think. There was a red wig, I know, but nothing else in the way of
hair. Burnt corks they use mostlyâ€”though â€˜tis messy getting it off
again. Miss Cynthia was a nigger once, and, oh, the trouble she had.â€�

â€œSo Dorcas knows nothing about that black beard,â€� said Poirot
thoughtfully, as we walked out into the hall again.

â€œDo you think it is _the_ one?â€� I whispered eagerly.

Poirot nodded.

â€œI do. You notice it had been trimmed?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œYes. It was cut exactly the shape of Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s, and I found one
or two snipped hairs. Hastings, this affair is very deep.â€�

â€œWho put it in the chest, I wonder?â€�

â€œSomeone with a good deal of intelligence,â€� remarked Poirot dryly. â€œYou
realize that he chose the one place in the house to hide it where its
presence would not be remarked? Yes, he is intelligent. But we must be
more intelligent. We must be so intelligent that he does not suspect us
of being intelligent at all.â€�

I acquiesced.

â€œThere, _mon ami_, you will be of great assistance to me.â€�

I was pleased with the compliment. There had been times when I hardly
thought that Poirot appreciated me at my true worth.

â€œYes,â€� he continued, staring at me thoughtfully, â€œyou will be
invaluable.â€�

This was naturally gratifying, but Poirotâ€™s next words were not so
welcome.

â€œI must have an ally in the house,â€� he observed reflectively.

â€œYou have me,â€� I protested.

â€œTrue, but you are not sufficient.â€�

I was hurt, and showed it. Poirot hurried to explain himself.

â€œYou do not quite take my meaning. You are known to be working with me.
I want somebody who is not associated with us in any way.â€�

â€œOh, I see. How about John?â€�

â€œNo, I think not.â€�

â€œThe dear fellow isnâ€™t perhaps very bright,â€� I said thoughtfully.

â€œHere comes Miss Howard,â€� said Poirot suddenly. â€œShe is the very
person. But I am in her black books, since I cleared Mr. Inglethorp.
Still, we can but try.â€�

With a nod that was barely civil, Miss Howard assented to Poirotâ€™s
request for a few minutesâ€™ conversation.

We went into the little morning-room, and Poirot closed the door.

â€œWell, Monsieur Poirot,â€� said Miss Howard impatiently, â€œwhat is it? Out
with it. Iâ€™m busy.â€�

â€œDo you remember, mademoiselle, that I once asked you to help me?â€�

â€œYes, I do.â€� The lady nodded. â€œAnd I told you Iâ€™d help you with
pleasureâ€”to hang Alfred Inglethorp.â€�

â€œAh!â€� Poirot studied her seriously. â€œMiss Howard, I will ask you one
question. I beg of you to reply to it truthfully.â€�

â€œNever tell lies,â€� replied Miss Howard.

â€œIt is this. Do you still believe that Mrs. Inglethorp was poisoned by
her husband?â€�

â€œWhat do you mean?â€� she asked sharply. â€œYou neednâ€™t think your pretty
explanations influence me in the slightest. Iâ€™ll admit that it wasnâ€™t
he who bought strychnine at the chemistâ€™s shop. What of that? I dare
say he soaked fly paper, as I told you at the beginning.â€�

â€œThat is arsenicâ€”not strychnine,â€� said Poirot mildly.

â€œWhat does that matter? Arsenic would put poor Emily out of the way
just as well as strychnine. If Iâ€™m convinced he did it, it doesnâ€™t
matter a jot to me _how_ he did it.â€�

â€œExactly. _If_ you are convinced he did it,â€� said Poirot quietly. â€œI
will put my question in another form. Did you ever in your heart of
hearts believe that Mrs. Inglethorp was poisoned by her husband?â€�

â€œGood heavens!â€� cried Miss Howard. â€œHavenâ€™t I always told you the man
is a villain? Havenâ€™t I always told you he would murder her in her bed?
Havenâ€™t I always hated him like poison?â€�

â€œExactly,â€� said Poirot. â€œThat bears out my little idea entirely.â€�

â€œWhat little idea?â€�

â€œMiss Howard, do you remember a conversation that took place on the day
of my friendâ€™s arrival here? He repeated it to me, and there is a
sentence of yours that has impressed me very much. Do you remember
affirming that if a crime had been committed, and anyone you loved had
been murdered, you felt certain that you would know by instinct who the
criminal was, even if you were quite unable to prove it?â€�

â€œYes, I remember saying that. I believe it too. I suppose you think it
nonsense?â€�

â€œNot at all.â€�

â€œAnd yet you will pay no attention to my instinct against Alfred
Inglethorp.â€�

â€œNo,â€� said Poirot curtly. â€œBecause your instinct is not against Mr.
Inglethorp.â€�

â€œWhat?â€�

â€œNo. You wish to believe he committed the crime. You believe him
capable of committing it. But your instinct tells you he did not commit
it. It tells you moreâ€”shall I go on?â€�

She was staring at him, fascinated, and made a slight affirmative
movement of the hand.

â€œShall I tell you why you have been so vehement against Mr. Inglethorp?
It is because you have been trying to believe what you wish to believe.
It is because you are trying to drown and stifle your instinct, which
tells you another nameâ€”â€”â€�

â€œNo, no, no!â€� cried Miss Howard wildly, flinging up her hands. â€œDonâ€™t
say it! Oh, donâ€™t say it! It isnâ€™t true! It canâ€™t be true. I donâ€™t know
what put such a wildâ€”such a dreadfulâ€”idea into my head!â€�

â€œI am right, am I not?â€� asked Poirot.

â€œYes, yes; you must be a wizard to have guessed. But it canâ€™t be
soâ€”itâ€™s too monstrous, too impossible. It _must_ be Alfred Inglethorp.â€�

Poirot shook his head gravely.

â€œDonâ€™t ask me about it,â€� continued Miss Howard, â€œbecause I shanâ€™t tell
you. I wonâ€™t admit it, even to myself. I must be mad to think of such a
thing.â€�

Poirot nodded, as if satisfied.

â€œI will ask you nothing. It is enough for me that it is as I thought.
And Iâ€”I, too, have an instinct. We are working together towards a
common end.â€�

â€œDonâ€™t ask me to help you, because I wonâ€™t. I wouldnâ€™t lift a finger
toâ€”toâ€”â€”â€� She faltered.

â€œYou will help me in spite of yourself. I ask you nothingâ€”but you will
be my ally. You will not be able to help yourself. You will do the only
thing that I want of you.â€�

â€œAnd that is?â€�

â€œYou will watch!â€�

Evelyn Howard bowed her head.

â€œYes, I canâ€™t help doing that. I am always watchingâ€”always hoping I
shall be proved wrong.â€�

â€œIf we are wrong, well and good,â€� said Poirot. â€œNo one will be more
pleased than I shall. But, if we are right? If we are right, Miss
Howard, on whose side are you then?â€�

â€œI donâ€™t know, I donâ€™t knowâ€”â€”â€�

â€œCome now.â€�

â€œIt could be hushed up.â€�

â€œThere must be no hushing up.â€�

â€œBut Emily herselfâ€”â€”â€� She broke off.

â€œMiss Howard,â€� said Poirot gravely, â€œthis is unworthy of you.â€�

Suddenly she took her face from her hands.

â€œYes,â€� she said quietly, â€œthat was not Evelyn Howard who spoke!â€� She
flung her head up proudly. â€œ_This_ is Evelyn Howard! And she is on the
side of Justice! Let the cost be what it may.â€� And with these words,
she walked firmly out of the room.

â€œThere,â€� said Poirot, looking after her, â€œgoes a very valuable ally.
That woman, Hastings, has got brains as well as a heart.â€�

I did not reply.

â€œInstinct is a marvellous thing,â€� mused Poirot. â€œIt can neither be
explained nor ignored.â€�

â€œYou and Miss Howard seem to know what you are talking about,â€� I
observed coldly. â€œPerhaps you donâ€™t realize that _I_ am still in the
dark.â€�

â€œReally? Is that so, _mon ami?_â€�

â€œYes. Enlighten me, will you?â€�

Poirot studied me attentively for a moment or two. Then, to my intense
surprise, he shook his head decidedly.

â€œNo, my friend.â€�

â€œOh, look here, why not?â€�

â€œTwo is enough for a secret.â€�

â€œWell, I think it is very unfair to keep back facts from me.â€�

â€œI am not keeping back facts. Every fact that I know is in your
possession. You can draw your own deductions from them. This time it is
a question of ideas.â€�

â€œStill, it would be interesting to know.â€�

Poirot looked at me very earnestly, and again shook his head.

â€œYou see,â€� he said sadly, â€œ_you_ have no instincts.â€�

â€œIt was intelligence you were requiring just now,â€� I pointed out.

â€œThe two often go together,â€� said Poirot enigmatically.

The remark seemed so utterly irrelevant that I did not even take the
trouble to answer it. But I decided that if I made any interesting and
important discoveriesâ€”as no doubt I shouldâ€”I would keep them to myself,
and surprise Poirot with the ultimate result.

There are times when it is oneâ€™s duty to assert oneself.






CHAPTER IX. DR. BAUERSTEIN

I had had no opportunity as yet of passing on Poirotâ€™s message to
Lawrence. But now, as I strolled out on the lawn, still nursing a
grudge against my friendâ€™s high-handedness, I saw Lawrence on the
croquet lawn, aimlessly knocking a couple of very ancient balls about,
with a still more ancient mallet.

It struck me that it would be a good opportunity to deliver my message.
Otherwise, Poirot himself might relieve me of it. It was true that I
did not quite gather its purport, but I flattered myself that by
Lawrenceâ€™s reply, and perhaps a little skillful cross-examination on my
part, I should soon perceive its significance. Accordingly I accosted
him.

â€œIâ€™ve been looking for you,â€� I remarked untruthfully.

â€œHave you?â€�

â€œYes. The truth is, Iâ€™ve got a message for youâ€”from Poirot.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œHe told me to wait until I was alone with you,â€� I said, dropping my
voice significantly, and watching him intently out of the corner of my
eye. I have always been rather good at what is called, I believe,
creating an atmosphere.

â€œWell?â€�

There was no change of expression in the dark melancholic face. Had he
any idea of what I was about to say?

â€œThis is the message.â€� I dropped my voice still lower. â€œâ€˜Find the extra
coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.â€™â€�

â€œWhat on earth does he mean?â€� Lawrence stared at me in quite unaffected
astonishment.

â€œDonâ€™t you know?â€�

â€œNot in the least. Do you?â€�

I was compelled to shake my head.

â€œWhat extra coffee-cup?â€�

â€œI donâ€™t know.â€�

â€œHeâ€™d better ask Dorcas, or one of the maids, if he wants to know about
coffee-cups. Itâ€™s their business, not mine. I donâ€™t know anything about
the coffee-cups, except that weâ€™ve got some that are never used, which
are a perfect dream! Old Worcester. Youâ€™re not a connoisseur, are you,
Hastings?â€�

I shook my head.

â€œYou miss a lot. A really perfect bit of old chinaâ€”itâ€™s pure delight to
handle it, or even to look at it.â€�

â€œWell, what am I to tell Poirot?â€�

â€œTell him I donâ€™t know what heâ€™s talking about. Itâ€™s double Dutch to
me.â€�

â€œAll right.â€�

I was moving off towards the house again when he suddenly called me
back.

â€œI say, what was the end of that message? Say it over again, will you?â€�

â€œâ€˜Find the extra coffee-cup, and you can rest in peace.â€™ Are you sure
you donâ€™t know what it means?â€� I asked him earnestly.

He shook his head.

â€œNo,â€� he said musingly, â€œI donâ€™t. Iâ€”I wish I did.â€�

The boom of the gong sounded from the house, and we went in together.
Poirot had been asked by John to remain to lunch, and was already
seated at the table.

By tacit consent, all mention of the tragedy was barred. We conversed
on the war, and other outside topics. But after the cheese and biscuits
had been handed round, and Dorcas had left the room, Poirot suddenly
leant forward to Mrs. Cavendish.

â€œPardon me, madame, for recalling unpleasant memories, but I have a
little ideaâ€�â€”Poirotâ€™s â€œlittle ideasâ€� were becoming a perfect
bywordâ€”â€œand would like to ask one or two questions.â€�

â€œOf me? Certainly.â€�

â€œYou are too amiable, madame. What I want to ask is this: the door
leading into Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room from that of Mademoiselle Cynthia,
it was bolted, you say?â€�

â€œCertainly it was bolted,â€� replied Mary Cavendish, rather surprised. â€œI
said so at the inquest.â€�

â€œBolted?â€�

â€œYes.â€� She looked perplexed.

â€œI mean,â€� explained Poirot, â€œyou are sure it was bolted, and not merely
locked?â€�

â€œOh, I see what you mean. No, I donâ€™t know. I said bolted, meaning that
it was fastened, and I could not open it, but I believe all the doors
were found bolted on the inside.â€�

â€œStill, as far as you are concerned, the door might equally well have
been locked?â€�

â€œOh, yes.â€�

â€œYou yourself did not happen to notice, madame, when you entered Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s room, whether that door was bolted or not?â€�

â€œIâ€”I believe it was.â€�

â€œBut you did not see it?â€�

â€œNo. Iâ€”never looked.â€�

â€œBut _I_ did,â€� interrupted Lawrence suddenly. â€œI happened to notice
that it _was_ bolted.â€�

â€œAh, that settles it.â€� And Poirot looked crestfallen.

I could not help rejoicing that, for once, one of his â€œlittle ideasâ€�
had come to naught.

After lunch Poirot begged me to accompany him home. I consented rather
stiffly.

â€œYou are annoyed, is it not so?â€� he asked anxiously, as we walked
through the park.

â€œNot at all,â€� I said coldly.

â€œThat is well. That lifts a great load from my mind.â€�

This was not quite what I had intended. I had hoped that he would have
observed the stiffness of my manner. Still, the fervour of his words
went towards the appeasing of my just displeasure. I thawed.

â€œI gave Lawrence your message,â€� I said.

â€œAnd what did he say? He was entirely puzzled?â€�

â€œYes. I am quite sure he had no idea of what you meant.â€�

I had expected Poirot to be disappointed; but, to my surprise, he
replied that that was as he had thought, and that he was very glad. My
pride forbade me to ask any questions.

Poirot switched off on another tack.

â€œMademoiselle Cynthia was not at lunch to-day? How was that?â€�

â€œShe is at the hospital again. She resumed work to-day.â€�

â€œAh, she is an industrious little demoiselle. And pretty too. She is
like pictures I have seen in Italy. I would rather like to see that
dispensary of hers. Do you think she would show it to me?â€�

â€œI am sure she would be delighted. Itâ€™s an interesting little place.â€�

â€œDoes she go there every day?â€�

â€œShe has all Wednesdays off, and comes back to lunch on Saturdays.
Those are her only times off.â€�

â€œI will remember. Women are doing great work nowadays, and Mademoiselle
Cynthia is cleverâ€”oh, yes, she has brains, that little one.â€�

â€œYes. I believe she has passed quite a stiff exam.â€�

â€œWithout doubt. After all, it is very responsible work. I suppose they
have very strong poisons there?â€�

â€œYes, she showed them to us. They are kept locked up in a little
cupboard. I believe they have to be very careful. They always take out
the key before leaving the room.â€�

â€œIndeed. It is near the window, this cupboard?â€�

â€œNo, right the other side of the room. Why?â€�

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

â€œI wondered. That is all. Will you come in?â€�

We had reached the cottage.

â€œNo. I think Iâ€™ll be getting back. I shall go round the long way
through the woods.â€�

The woods round Styles were very beautiful. After the walk across the
open park, it was pleasant to saunter lazily through the cool glades.
There was hardly a breath of wind, the very chirp of the birds was
faint and subdued. I strolled on a little way, and finally flung myself
down at the foot of a grand old beech-tree. My thoughts of mankind were
kindly and charitable. I even forgave Poirot for his absurd secrecy. In
fact, I was at peace with the world. Then I yawned.

I thought about the crime, and it struck me as being very unreal and
far off.

I yawned again.

Probably, I thought, it really never happened. Of course, it was all a
bad dream. The truth of the matter was that it was Lawrence who had
murdered Alfred Inglethorp with a croquet mallet. But it was absurd of
John to make such a fuss about it, and to go shouting out: â€œI tell you
I wonâ€™t have it!â€�

I woke up with a start.

At once I realized that I was in a very awkward predicament. For, about
twelve feet away from me, John and Mary Cavendish were standing facing
each other, and they were evidently quarrelling. And, quite as
evidently, they were unaware of my vicinity, for before I could move or
speak John repeated the words which had aroused me from my dream.

â€œI tell you, Mary, I wonâ€™t have it.â€�

Maryâ€™s voice came, cool and liquid:

â€œHave _you_ any right to criticize my actions?â€�

â€œIt will be the talk of the village! My mother was only buried on
Saturday, and here you are gadding about with the fellow.â€�

â€œOh,â€� she shrugged her shoulders, â€œif it is only village gossip that
you mind!â€�

â€œBut it isnâ€™t. Iâ€™ve had enough of the fellow hanging about. Heâ€™s a
Polish Jew, anyway.â€�

â€œA tinge of Jewish blood is not a bad thing. It leavens theâ€�â€”she looked
at himâ€”â€œstolid stupidity of the ordinary Englishman.â€�

Fire in her eyes, ice in her voice. I did not wonder that the blood
rose to Johnâ€™s face in a crimson tide.

â€œMary!â€�

â€œWell?â€� Her tone did not change.

The pleading died out of his voice.

â€œAm I to understand that you will continue to see Bauerstein against my
express wishes?â€�

â€œIf I choose.â€�

â€œYou defy me?â€�

â€œNo, but I deny your right to criticize my actions. Have _you_ no
friends of whom I should disapprove?â€�

John fell back a pace. The colour ebbed slowly from his face.

â€œWhat do you mean?â€� he said, in an unsteady voice.

â€œYou see!â€� said Mary quietly. â€œYou _do_ see, donâ€™t you, that _you_ have
no right to dictate to _me_ as to the choice of my friends?â€�

John glanced at her pleadingly, a stricken look on his face.

â€œNo right? Have I _no_ right, Mary?â€� he said unsteadily. He stretched
out his hands. â€œMaryâ€”â€”â€�

For a moment, I thought she wavered. A softer expression came over her
face, then suddenly she turned almost fiercely away.

â€œNone!â€�

She was walking away when John sprang after her, and caught her by the
arm.

â€œMaryâ€�â€”his voice was very quiet nowâ€”â€œare you in love with this fellow
Bauerstein?â€�

She hesitated, and suddenly there swept across her face a strange
expression, old as the hills, yet with something eternally young about
it. So might some Egyptian sphinx have smiled.

She freed herself quietly from his arm, and spoke over her shoulder.

â€œPerhaps,â€� she said; and then swiftly passed out of the little glade,
leaving John standing there as though he had been turned to stone.

Rather ostentatiously, I stepped forward, crackling some dead branches
with my feet as I did so. John turned. Luckily, he took it for granted
that I had only just come upon the scene.

â€œHullo, Hastings. Have you seen the little fellow safely back to his
cottage? Quaint little chap! Is he any good, though, really?â€�

â€œHe was considered one of the finest detectives of his day.â€�

â€œOh, well, I suppose there must be something in it, then. What a rotten
world it is, though!â€�

â€œYou find it so?â€� I asked.

â€œGood Lord, yes! Thereâ€™s this terrible business to start with. Scotland
Yard men in and out of the house like a jack-in-the-box! Never know
where they wonâ€™t turn up next. Screaming headlines in every paper in
the countryâ€”damn all journalists, I say! Do you know there was a whole
crowd staring in at the lodge gates this morning. Sort of Madame
Tussaudâ€™s chamber of horrors business that can be seen for nothing.
Pretty thick, isnâ€™t it?â€�

â€œCheer up, John!â€� I said soothingly. â€œIt canâ€™t last for ever.â€�

â€œCanâ€™t it, though? It can last long enough for us never to be able to
hold up our heads again.â€�

â€œNo, no, youâ€™re getting morbid on the subject.â€�

â€œEnough to make a man morbid, to be stalked by beastly journalists and
stared at by gaping moon-faced idiots, wherever he goes! But thereâ€™s
worse than that.â€�

â€œWhat?â€�

John lowered his voice:

â€œHave you ever thought, Hastingsâ€”itâ€™s a nightmare to meâ€”who did it? I
canâ€™t help feeling sometimes it must have been an accident.
Becauseâ€”becauseâ€”who could have done it? Now Inglethorpâ€™s out of the
way, thereâ€™s no one else; no one, I mean, exceptâ€”one of us.â€�

Yes, indeed, that was nightmare enough for any man! One of us? Yes,
surely it must be so, unlessâ€”â€”-

A new idea suggested itself to my mind. Rapidly, I considered it. The
light increased. Poirotâ€™s mysterious doings, his hintsâ€”they all fitted
in. Fool that I was not to have thought of this possibility before, and
what a relief for us all.

â€œNo, John,â€� I said, â€œit isnâ€™t one of us. How could it be?â€�

â€œI know, but, still, who else is there?â€�

â€œCanâ€™t you guess?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

I looked cautiously round, and lowered my voice.

â€œDr. Bauerstein!â€� I whispered.

â€œImpossible!â€�

â€œNot at all.â€�

â€œBut what earthly interest could he have in my motherâ€™s death?â€�

â€œThat I donâ€™t see,â€� I confessed, â€œbut Iâ€™ll tell you this: Poirot thinks
so.â€�

â€œPoirot? Does he? How do you know?â€�

I told him of Poirotâ€™s intense excitement on hearing that Dr.
Bauerstein had been at Styles on the fatal night, and added:

â€œHe said twice: â€˜That alters everything.â€™ And Iâ€™ve been thinking. You
know Inglethorp said he had put down the coffee in the hall? Well, it
was just then that Bauerstein arrived. Isnâ€™t it possible that, as
Inglethorp brought him through the hall, the doctor dropped something
into the coffee in passing?â€�

â€œHâ€™m,â€� said John. â€œIt would have been very risky.â€�

â€œYes, but it was possible.â€�

â€œAnd then, how could he know it was her coffee? No, old fellow, I donâ€™t
think that will wash.â€�

But I had remembered something else.

â€œYouâ€™re quite right. That wasnâ€™t how it was done. Listen.â€� And I then
told him of the cocoa sample which Poirot had taken to be analysed.

John interrupted just as I had done.

â€œBut, look here, Bauerstein had had it analysed already?â€�

â€œYes, yes, thatâ€™s the point. I didnâ€™t see it either until now. Donâ€™t
you understand? Bauerstein had it analysedâ€”thatâ€™s just it! If
Bauersteinâ€™s the murderer, nothing could be simpler than for him to
substitute some ordinary cocoa for his sample, and send that to be
tested. And of course they would find no strychnine! But no one would
dream of suspecting Bauerstein, or think of taking another
sampleâ€”except Poirot,â€� I added, with belated recognition.

â€œYes, but what about the bitter taste that cocoa wonâ€™t disguise?â€�

â€œWell, weâ€™ve only his word for that. And there are other possibilities.
Heâ€™s admittedly one of the worldâ€™s greatest toxicologistsâ€”â€”â€�

â€œOne of the worldâ€™s greatest what? Say it again.â€�

â€œHe knows more about poisons than almost anybody,â€� I explained. â€œWell,
my idea is, that perhaps heâ€™s found some way of making strychnine
tasteless. Or it may not have been strychnine at all, but some obscure
drug no one has ever heard of, which produces much the same symptoms.â€�

â€œHâ€™m, yes, that might be,â€� said John. â€œBut look here, how could he have
got at the cocoa? That wasnâ€™t downstairs?â€�

â€œNo, it wasnâ€™t,â€� I admitted reluctantly.

And then, suddenly, a dreadful possibility flashed through my mind. I
hoped and prayed it would not occur to John also. I glanced sideways at
him. He was frowning perplexedly, and I drew a deep breath of relief,
for the terrible thought that had flashed across my mind was this: that
Dr. Bauerstein might have had an accomplice.

Yet surely it could not be! Surely no woman as beautiful as Mary
Cavendish could be a murderess. Yet beautiful women had been known to
poison.

And suddenly I remembered that first conversation at tea on the day of
my arrival, and the gleam in her eyes as she had said that poison was a
womanâ€™s weapon. How agitated she had been on that fatal Tuesday
evening! Had Mrs. Inglethorp discovered something between her and
Bauerstein, and threatened to tell her husband? Was it to stop that
denunciation that the crime had been committed?

Then I remembered that enigmatical conversation between Poirot and
Evelyn Howard. Was this what they had meant? Was this the monstrous
possibility that Evelyn had tried not to believe?

Yes, it all fitted in.

No wonder Miss Howard had suggested â€œhushing it up.â€� Now I understood
that unfinished sentence of hers: â€œEmily herselfâ€”â€”â€� And in my heart I
agreed with her. Would not Mrs. Inglethorp have preferred to go
unavenged rather than have such terrible dishonour fall upon the name
of Cavendish.

â€œThereâ€™s another thing,â€� said John suddenly, and the unexpected sound
of his voice made me start guiltily. â€œSomething which makes me doubt if
what you say can be true.â€�

â€œWhatâ€™s that?â€� I asked, thankful that he had gone away from the subject
of how the poison could have been introduced into the cocoa.

â€œWhy, the fact that Bauerstein demanded a post-mortem. He neednâ€™t have
done so. Little Wilkins would have been quite content to let it go at
heart disease.â€�

â€œYes,â€� I said doubtfully. â€œBut we donâ€™t know. Perhaps he thought it
safer in the long run. Someone might have talked afterwards. Then the
Home Office might have ordered exhumation. The whole thing would have
come out, then, and he would have been in an awkward position, for no
one would have believed that a man of his reputation could have been
deceived into calling it heart disease.â€�

â€œYes, thatâ€™s possible,â€� admitted John. â€œStill,â€� he added, â€œIâ€™m blest if
I can see what his motive could have been.â€�

I trembled.

â€œLook here,â€� I said, â€œI may be altogether wrong. And, remember, all
this is in confidence.â€�

â€œOh, of courseâ€”that goes without saying.â€�

We had walked, as we talked, and now we passed through the little gate
into the garden. Voices rose near at hand, for tea was spread out under
the sycamore-tree, as it had been on the day of my arrival.

Cynthia was back from the hospital, and I placed my chair beside her,
and told her of Poirotâ€™s wish to visit the dispensary.

â€œOf course! Iâ€™d love him to see it. Heâ€™d better come to tea there one
day. I must fix it up with him. Heâ€™s such a dear little man! But he
_is_ funny. He made me take the brooch out of my tie the other day, and
put it in again, because he said it wasnâ€™t straight.â€�

I laughed.

â€œItâ€™s quite a mania with him.â€�

â€œYes, isnâ€™t it?â€�

We were silent for a minute or two, and then, glancing in the direction
of Mary Cavendish, and dropping her voice, Cynthia said:

â€œMr. Hastings.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œAfter tea, I want to talk to you.â€�

Her glance at Mary had set me thinking. I fancied that between these
two there existed very little sympathy. For the first time, it occurred
to me to wonder about the girlâ€™s future. Mrs. Inglethorp had made no
provisions of any kind for her, but I imagined that John and Mary would
probably insist on her making her home with themâ€”at any rate until the
end of the war. John, I knew, was very fond of her, and would be sorry
to let her go.

John, who had gone into the house, now reappeared. His good-natured
face wore an unaccustomed frown of anger.

â€œConfound those detectives! I canâ€™t think what theyâ€™re after! Theyâ€™ve
been in every room in the houseâ€”turning things inside out, and upside
down. It really is too bad! I suppose they took advantage of our all
being out. I shall go for that fellow Japp, when I next see him!â€�

â€œLot of Paul Prys,â€� grunted Miss Howard.

Lawrence opined that they had to make a show of doing something.

Mary Cavendish said nothing.

After tea, I invited Cynthia to come for a walk, and we sauntered off
into the woods together.

â€œWell?â€� I inquired, as soon as we were protected from prying eyes by
the leafy screen.

With a sigh, Cynthia flung herself down, and tossed off her hat. The
sunlight, piercing through the branches, turned the auburn of her hair
to quivering gold.

â€œMr. Hastingsâ€”you are always so kind, and you know such a lot.â€�

It struck me at this moment that Cynthia was really a very charming
girl! Much more charming than Mary, who never said things of that kind.

â€œWell?â€� I asked benignantly, as she hesitated.

â€œI want to ask your advice. What shall I do?â€�

â€œDo?â€�

â€œYes. You see, Aunt Emily always told me I should be provided for. I
suppose she forgot, or didnâ€™t think she was likely to dieâ€”anyway, I am
_not_ provided for! And I donâ€™t know what to do. Do you think I ought
to go away from here at once?â€�

â€œGood heavens, no! They donâ€™t want to part with you, Iâ€™m sure.â€�

Cynthia hesitated a moment, plucking up the grass with her tiny hands.
Then she said: â€œMrs. Cavendish does. She hates me.â€�

â€œHates you?â€� I cried, astonished.

Cynthia nodded.

â€œYes. I donâ€™t know why, but she canâ€™t bear me; and _he_ canâ€™t, either.â€�

â€œThere I know youâ€™re wrong,â€� I said warmly. â€œOn the contrary, John is
very fond of you.â€�

â€œOh, yesâ€”_John_. I meant Lawrence. Not, of course, that I care whether
Lawrence hates me or not. Still, itâ€™s rather horrid when no one loves
you, isnâ€™t it?â€�

â€œBut they do, Cynthia dear,â€� I said earnestly. â€œIâ€™m sure you are
mistaken. Look, there is Johnâ€”and Miss Howardâ€”â€”â€�

Cynthia nodded rather gloomily. â€œYes, John likes me, I think, and of
course Evie, for all her gruff ways, wouldnâ€™t be unkind to a fly. But
Lawrence never speaks to me if he can help it, and Mary can hardly
bring herself to be civil to me. She wants Evie to stay on, is begging
her to, but she doesnâ€™t want me, andâ€”andâ€”I donâ€™t know what to do.â€�
Suddenly the poor child burst out crying.

I donâ€™t know what possessed me. Her beauty, perhaps, as she sat there,
with the sunlight glinting down on her head; perhaps the sense of
relief at encountering someone who so obviously could have no
connection with the tragedy; perhaps honest pity for her youth and
loneliness. Anyway, I leant forward, and taking her little hand, I said
awkwardly:

â€œMarry me, Cynthia.â€�

Unwittingly, I had hit upon a sovereign remedy for her tears. She sat
up at once, drew her hand away, and said, with some asperity:

â€œDonâ€™t be silly!â€�

I was a little annoyed.

â€œIâ€™m not being silly. I am asking you to do me the honour of becoming
my wife.â€�

To my intense surprise, Cynthia burst out laughing, and called me a
â€œfunny dear.â€�

â€œItâ€™s perfectly sweet of you,â€� she said, â€œbut you know you donâ€™t want
to!â€�

â€œYes, I do. Iâ€™ve gotâ€”â€”â€�

â€œNever mind what youâ€™ve got. You donâ€™t really want toâ€”and I donâ€™t
either.â€�

â€œWell, of course, that settles it,â€� I said stiffly. â€œBut I donâ€™t see
anything to laugh at. Thereâ€™s nothing funny about a proposal.â€�

â€œNo, indeed,â€� said Cynthia. â€œSomebody might accept you next time.
Good-bye, youâ€™ve cheered me up _very_ much.â€�

And, with a final uncontrollable burst of merriment, she vanished
through the trees.

Thinking over the interview, it struck me as being profoundly
unsatisfactory.

It occurred to me suddenly that I would go down to the village, and
look up Bauerstein. Somebody ought to be keeping an eye on the fellow.
At the same time, it would be wise to allay any suspicions he might
have as to his being suspected. I remembered how Poirot had relied on
my diplomacy. Accordingly, I went to the little house with the
â€œApartmentsâ€� card inserted in the window, where I knew he lodged, and
tapped on the door.

An old woman came and opened it.

â€œGood afternoon,â€� I said pleasantly. â€œIs Dr. Bauerstein in?â€�

She stared at me.

â€œHavenâ€™t you heard?â€�

â€œHeard what?â€�

â€œAbout him.â€�

â€œWhat about him?â€�

â€œHeâ€™s took.â€�

â€œTook? Dead?â€�

â€œNo, took by the perlice.â€�

â€œBy the police!â€� I gasped. â€œDo you mean theyâ€™ve arrested him?â€�

â€œYes, thatâ€™s it, andâ€”â€”â€�

I waited to hear no more, but tore up the village to find Poirot.






CHAPTER X. THE ARREST

To my extreme annoyance, Poirot was not in, and the old Belgian who
answered my knock informed me that he believed he had gone to London.

I was dumbfounded. What on earth could Poirot be doing in London! Was
it a sudden decision on his part, or had he already made up his mind
when he parted from me a few hours earlier?

I retraced my steps to Styles in some annoyance. With Poirot away, I
was uncertain how to act. Had he foreseen this arrest? Had he not, in
all probability, been the cause of it? Those questions I could not
resolve. But in the meantime what was I to do? Should I announce the
arrest openly at Styles, or not? Though I did not acknowledge it to
myself, the thought of Mary Cavendish was weighing on me. Would it not
be a terrible shock to her? For the moment, I set aside utterly any
suspicions of her. She could not be implicatedâ€”otherwise I should have
heard some hint of it.

Of course, there was no possibility of being able permanently to
conceal Dr. Bauersteinâ€™s arrest from her. It would be announced in
every newspaper on the morrow. Still, I shrank from blurting it out. If
only Poirot had been accessible, I could have asked his advice. What
possessed him to go posting off to London in this unaccountable way?

In spite of myself, my opinion of his sagacity was immeasurably
heightened. I would never have dreamt of suspecting the doctor, had not
Poirot put it into my head. Yes, decidedly, the little man was clever.

After some reflecting, I decided to take John into my confidence, and
leave him to make the matter public or not, as he thought fit.

He gave vent to a prodigious whistle, as I imparted the news.

â€œGreat Scott! You _were_ right, then. I couldnâ€™t believe it at the
time.â€�

â€œNo, it is astonishing until you get used to the idea, and see how it
makes everything fit in. Now, what are we to do? Of course, it will be
generally known to-morrow.â€�

John reflected.

â€œNever mind,â€� he said at last, â€œwe wonâ€™t say anything at present. There
is no need. As you say, it will be known soon enough.â€�

But to my intense surprise, on getting down early the next morning, and
eagerly opening the newspapers, there was not a word about the arrest!
There was a column of mere padding about â€œThe Styles Poisoning Case,â€�
but nothing further. It was rather inexplicable, but I supposed that,
for some reason or other, Japp wished to keep it out of the papers. It
worried me just a little, for it suggested the possibility that there
might be further arrests to come.

After breakfast, I decided to go down to the village, and see if Poirot
had returned yet; but, before I could start, a well-known face blocked
one of the windows, and the well-known voice said:

â€œ_Bonjour, mon ami!_â€�

â€œPoirot,â€� I exclaimed, with relief, and seizing him by both hands, I
dragged him into the room. â€œI was never so glad to see anyone. Listen,
I have said nothing to anybody but John. Is that right?â€�

â€œMy friend,â€� replied Poirot, â€œI do not know what you are talking
about.â€�

â€œDr. Bauersteinâ€™s arrest, of course,â€� I answered impatiently.

â€œIs Bauerstein arrested, then?â€�

â€œDid you not know it?â€�

â€œNot the least in the world.â€� But, pausing a moment, he added: â€œStill,
it does not surprise me. After all, we are only four miles from the
coast.â€�

â€œThe coast?â€� I asked, puzzled. â€œWhat has that got to do with it?â€�

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

â€œSurely, it is obvious!â€�

â€œNot to me. No doubt I am very dense, but I cannot see what the
proximity of the coast has got to do with the murder of Mrs.
Inglethorp.â€�

â€œNothing at all, of course,â€� replied Poirot, smiling. â€œBut we were
speaking of the arrest of Dr. Bauerstein.â€�

â€œWell, he is arrested for the murder of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€”â€”â€�

â€œWhat?â€� cried Poirot, in apparently lively astonishment. â€œDr.
Bauerstein arrested for the murder of Mrs. Inglethorp?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œImpossible! That would be too good a farce! Who told you that, my
friend?â€�

â€œWell, no one exactly told me,â€� I confessed. â€œBut he is arrested.â€�

â€œOh, yes, very likely. But for espionage, _mon ami_.â€�

â€œEspionage?â€� I gasped.

â€œPrecisely.â€�

â€œNot for poisoning Mrs. Inglethorp?â€�

â€œNot unless our friend Japp has taken leave of his senses,â€� replied
Poirot placidly.

â€œButâ€”but I thought you thought so too?â€�

Poirot gave me one look, which conveyed a wondering pity, and his full
sense of the utter absurdity of such an idea.

â€œDo you mean to say,â€� I asked, slowly adapting myself to the new idea,
â€œthat Dr. Bauerstein is a spy?â€�

Poirot nodded.

â€œHave you never suspected it?â€�

â€œIt never entered my head.â€�

â€œIt did not strike you as peculiar that a famous London doctor should
bury himself in a little village like this, and should be in the habit
of walking about at all hours of the night, fully dressed?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I confessed, â€œI never thought of such a thing.â€�

â€œHe is, of course, a German by birth,â€� said Poirot thoughtfully,
â€œthough he has practised so long in this country that nobody thinks of
him as anything but an Englishman. He was naturalized about fifteen
years ago. A very clever manâ€”a Jew, of course.â€�

â€œThe blackguard!â€� I cried indignantly.

â€œNot at all. He is, on the contrary, a patriot. Think what he stands to
lose. I admire the man myself.â€�

But I could not look at it in Poirotâ€™s philosophical way.

â€œAnd this is the man with whom Mrs. Cavendish has been wandering about
all over the country!â€� I cried indignantly.

â€œYes. I should fancy he had found her very useful,â€� remarked Poirot.
â€œSo long as gossip busied itself in coupling their names together, any
other vagaries of the doctorâ€™s passed unobserved.â€�

â€œThen you think he never really cared for her?â€� I asked eagerlyâ€”rather
too eagerly, perhaps, under the circumstances.

â€œThat, of course, I cannot say, butâ€”shall I tell you my own private
opinion, Hastings?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œWell, it is this: that Mrs. Cavendish does not care, and never has
cared one little jot about Dr. Bauerstein!â€�

â€œDo you really think so?â€� I could not disguise my pleasure.

â€œI am quite sure of it. And I will tell you why.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œBecause she cares for someone else, _mon ami_.â€�

â€œOh!â€� What did he mean? In spite of myself, an agreeable warmth spread
over me. I am not a vain man where women are concerned, but I
remembered certain evidences, too lightly thought of at the time,
perhaps, but which certainly seemed to indicateâ€”â€”

My pleasing thoughts were interrupted by the sudden entrance of Miss
Howard. She glanced round hastily to make sure there was no one else in
the room, and quickly produced an old sheet of brown paper. This she
handed to Poirot, murmuring as she did so the cryptic words:

â€œOn top of the wardrobe.â€� Then she hurriedly left the room.

Poirot unfolded the sheet of paper eagerly, and uttered an exclamation
of satisfaction. He spread it out on the table.

â€œCome here, Hastings. Now tell me, what is that initialâ€”J. or L.?â€�

It was a medium sized sheet of paper, rather dusty, as though it had
lain by for some time. But it was the label that was attracting
Poirotâ€™s attention. At the top, it bore the printed stamp of Messrs.
Parksonâ€™s, the well-known theatrical costumiers, and it was addressed
to â€œâ€”(the debatable initial) Cavendish, Esq., Styles Court, Styles St.
Mary, Essex.â€�

â€œIt might be T., or it might be L.,â€� I said, after studying the thing
for a minute or two. â€œIt certainly isnâ€™t a J.â€�

â€œGood,â€� replied Poirot, folding up the paper again. â€œI, also, am of
your way of thinking. It is an L., depend upon it!â€�

â€œWhere did it come from?â€� I asked curiously. â€œIs it important?â€�

â€œModerately so. It confirms a surmise of mine. Having deduced its
existence, I set Miss Howard to search for it, and, as you see, she has
been successful.â€�

â€œWhat did she mean by â€˜On the top of the wardrobeâ€™?â€�

â€œShe meant,â€� replied Poirot promptly, â€œthat she found it on top of a
wardrobe.â€�

â€œA funny place for a piece of brown paper,â€� I mused.

â€œNot at all. The top of a wardrobe is an excellent place for brown
paper and cardboard boxes. I have kept them there myself. Neatly
arranged, there is nothing to offend the eye.â€�

â€œPoirot,â€� I asked earnestly, â€œhave you made up your mind about this
crime?â€�

â€œYesâ€”that is to say, I believe I know how it was committed.â€�

â€œAh!â€�

â€œUnfortunately, I have no proof beyond my surmise, unlessâ€”â€”â€� With
sudden energy, he caught me by the arm, and whirled me down the hall,
calling out in French in his excitement: â€œMademoiselle Dorcas,
Mademoiselle Dorcas, _un moment, sâ€™il vous plaÃ®t!_â€�

Dorcas, quite flurried by the noise, came hurrying out of the pantry.

â€œMy good Dorcas, I have an ideaâ€”a little ideaâ€”if it should prove
justified, what magnificent chance! Tell me, on Monday, not Tuesday,
Dorcas, but Monday, the day before the tragedy, did anything go wrong
with Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s bell?â€�

Dorcas looked very surprised.

â€œYes, sir, now you mention it, it did; though I donâ€™t know how you came
to hear of it. A mouse, or some such, must have nibbled the wire
through. The man came and put it right on Tuesday morning.â€�

With a long drawn exclamation of ecstasy, Poirot led the way back to
the morning-room.

â€œSee you, one should not ask for outside proofâ€”no, reason should be
enough. But the flesh is weak, it is consolation to find that one is on
the right track. Ah, my friend, I am like a giant refreshed. I run! I
leap!â€�

And, in very truth, run and leap he did, gambolling wildly down the
stretch of lawn outside the long window.

â€œWhat is your remarkable little friend doing?â€� asked a voice behind me,
and I turned to find Mary Cavendish at my elbow. She smiled, and so did
I. â€œWhat is it all about?â€�

â€œReally, I canâ€™t tell you. He asked Dorcas some question about a bell,
and appeared so delighted with her answer that he is capering about as
you see!â€�

Mary laughed.

â€œHow ridiculous! Heâ€™s going out of the gate. Isnâ€™t he coming back
to-day?â€�

â€œI donâ€™t know. Iâ€™ve given up trying to guess what heâ€™ll do next.â€�

â€œIs he quite mad, Mr. Hastings?â€�

â€œI honestly donâ€™t know. Sometimes, I feel sure he is as mad as a
hatter; and then, just as he is at his maddest, I find there is method
in his madness.â€�

â€œI see.â€�

In spite of her laugh, Mary was looking thoughtful this morning. She
seemed grave, almost sad.

It occurred to me that it would be a good opportunity to tackle her on
the subject of Cynthia. I began rather tactfully, _I_ thought, but I
had not gone far before she stopped me authoritatively.

â€œYou are an excellent advocate, I have no doubt, Mr. Hastings, but in
this case your talents are quite thrown away. Cynthia will run no risk
of encountering any unkindness from me.â€�

I began to stammer feebly that I hoped she hadnâ€™t thoughtâ€”â€” But again
she stopped me, and her words were so unexpected that they quite drove
Cynthia, and her troubles, out of my mind.

â€œMr. Hastings,â€� she said, â€œdo you think I and my husband are happy
together?â€�

I was considerably taken aback, and murmured something about itâ€™s not
being my business to think anything of the sort.

â€œWell,â€� she said quietly, â€œwhether it is your business or not, I will
tell you that we are _not_ happy.â€�

I said nothing, for I saw that she had not finished.

She began slowly, walking up and down the room, her head a little bent,
and that slim, supple figure of hers swaying gently as she walked. She
stopped suddenly, and looked up at me.

â€œYou donâ€™t know anything about me, do you?â€� she asked. â€œWhere I come
from, who I was before I married Johnâ€”anything, in fact? Well, I will
tell you. I will make a father confessor of you. You are kind, I
thinkâ€”yes, I am sure you are kind.â€�

Somehow, I was not quite as elated as I might have been. I remembered
that Cynthia had begun her confidences in much the same way. Besides, a
father confessor should be elderly, it is not at all the role for a
young man.

â€œMy father was English,â€� said Mrs. Cavendish, â€œbut my mother was a
Russian.â€�

â€œAh,â€� I said, â€œnow I understandâ€”â€”â€�

â€œUnderstand what?â€�

â€œA hint of something foreignâ€”differentâ€”that there has always been about
you.â€�

â€œMy mother was very beautiful, I believe. I donâ€™t know, because I never
saw her. She died when I was quite a little child. I believe there was
some tragedy connected with her deathâ€”she took an overdose of some
sleeping draught by mistake. However that may be, my father was
broken-hearted. Shortly afterwards, he went into the Consular Service.
Everywhere he went, I went with him. When I was twenty-three, I had
been nearly all over the world. It was a splendid lifeâ€”I loved it.â€�

There was a smile on her face, and her head was thrown back. She seemed
living in the memory of those old glad days.

â€œThen my father died. He left me very badly off. I had to go and live
with some old aunts in Yorkshire.â€� She shuddered. â€œYou will understand
me when I say that it was a deadly life for a girl brought up as I had
been. The narrowness, the deadly monotony of it, almost drove me mad.â€�
She paused a minute, and added in a different tone: â€œAnd then I met
John Cavendish.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œYou can imagine that, from my auntsâ€™ point of view, it was a very good
match for me. But I can honestly say it was not this fact which weighed
with me. No, he was simply a way of escape from the insufferable
monotony of my life.â€�

I said nothing, and after a moment, she went on:

â€œDonâ€™t misunderstand me. I was quite honest with him. I told him, what
was true, that I liked him very much, that I hoped to come to like him
more, but that I was not in any way what the world calls â€˜in loveâ€™ with
him. He declared that that satisfied him, and soâ€”we were married.â€�

She waited a long time, a little frown had gathered on her forehead.
She seemed to be looking back earnestly into those past days.

â€œI thinkâ€”I am sureâ€”he cared for me at first. But I suppose we were not
well matched. Almost at once, we drifted apart. Heâ€”it is not a pleasing
thing for my pride, but it is the truthâ€”tired of me very soon.â€� I must
have made some murmur of dissent, for she went on quickly: â€œOh, yes, he
did! Not that it matters nowâ€”now that weâ€™ve come to the parting of the
ways.â€�

â€œWhat do you mean?â€�

She answered quietly:

â€œI mean that I am not going to remain at Styles.â€�

â€œYou and John are not going to live here?â€�

â€œJohn may live here, but I shall not.â€�

â€œYou are going to leave him?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œBut why?â€�

She paused a long time, and said at last:

â€œPerhapsâ€”because I want to beâ€”free!â€�

And, as she spoke, I had a sudden vision of broad spaces, virgin tracts
of forests, untrodden landsâ€”and a realization of what freedom would
mean to such a nature as Mary Cavendish. I seemed to see her for a
moment as she was, a proud wild creature, as untamed by civilization as
some shy bird of the hills. A little cry broke from her lips:

â€œYou donâ€™t know, you donâ€™t know, how this hateful place has been prison
to me!â€�

â€œI understand,â€� I said, â€œbutâ€”but donâ€™t do anything rash.â€�

â€œOh, rash!â€� Her voice mocked at my prudence.

Then suddenly I said a thing I could have bitten out my tongue for:

â€œYou know that Dr. Bauerstein has been arrested?â€�

An instant coldness passed like a mask over her face, blotting out all
expression.

â€œJohn was so kind as to break that to me this morning.â€�

â€œWell, what do you think?â€� I asked feebly.

â€œOf what?â€�

â€œOf the arrest?â€�

â€œWhat should I think? Apparently he is a German spy; so the gardener
had told John.â€�

Her face and voice were absolutely cold and expressionless. Did she
care, or did she not?

She moved away a step or two, and fingered one of the flower vases.

â€œThese are quite dead. I must do them again. Would you mind
movingâ€”thank you, Mr. Hastings.â€� And she walked quietly past me out of
the window, with a cool little nod of dismissal.

No, surely she could not care for Bauerstein. No woman could act her
part with that icy unconcern.

Poirot did not make his appearance the following morning, and there was
no sign of the Scotland Yard men.

But, at lunch-time, there arrived a new piece of evidenceâ€”or rather
lack of evidence. We had vainly tried to trace the fourth letter, which
Mrs. Inglethorp had written on the evening preceding her death. Our
efforts having been in vain, we had abandoned the matter, hoping that
it might turn up of itself one day. And this is just what did happen,
in the shape of a communication, which arrived by the second post from
a firm of French music publishers, acknowledging Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
cheque, and regretting they had been unable to trace a certain series
of Russian folksongs. So the last hope of solving the mystery, by means
of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s correspondence on the fatal evening, had to be
abandoned.

Just before tea, I strolled down to tell Poirot of the new
disappointment, but found, to my annoyance, that he was once more out.

â€œGone to London again?â€�

â€œOh, no, monsieur, he has but taken the train to Tadminster. â€˜To see a
young ladyâ€™s dispensary,â€™ he said.â€�

â€œSilly ass!â€� I ejaculated. â€œI told him Wednesday was the one day she
wasnâ€™t there! Well, tell him to look us up to-morrow morning, will
you?â€�

â€œCertainly, monsieur.â€�

But, on the following day, no sign of Poirot. I was getting angry. He
was really treating us in the most cavalier fashion.

After lunch, Lawrence drew me aside, and asked if I was going down to
see him.

â€œNo, I donâ€™t think I shall. He can come up here if he wants to see us.â€�

â€œOh!â€� Lawrence looked indeterminate. Something unusually nervous and
excited in his manner roused my curiosity.

â€œWhat is it?â€� I asked. â€œI could go if thereâ€™s anything special.â€�

â€œItâ€™s nothing much, butâ€”well, if you are going, will you tell himâ€”â€”â€� he
dropped his voice to a whisperâ€”â€œI think Iâ€™ve found the extra
coffee-cup!â€�

I had almost forgotten that enigmatical message of Poirotâ€™s, but now my
curiosity was aroused afresh.

Lawrence would say no more, so I decided that I would descend from my
high horse, and once more seek out Poirot at Leastways Cottage.

This time I was received with a smile. Monsieur Poirot was within.
Would I mount? I mounted accordingly.

Poirot was sitting by the table, his head buried in his hands. He
sprang up at my entrance.

â€œWhat is it?â€� I asked solicitously. â€œYou are not ill, I trust?â€�

â€œNo, no, not ill. But I decide an affair of great moment.â€�

â€œWhether to catch the criminal or not?â€� I asked facetiously.

But, to my great surprise, Poirot nodded gravely.

â€œâ€˜To speak or not to speak,â€™ as your so great Shakespeare says, â€˜that
is the question.â€™â€�

I did not trouble to correct the quotation.

â€œYou are not serious, Poirot?â€�

â€œI am of the most serious. For the most serious of all things hangs in
the balance.â€�

â€œAnd that is?â€�

â€œA womanâ€™s happiness, _mon ami_,â€� he said gravely.

I did not quite know what to say.

â€œThe moment has come,â€� said Poirot thoughtfully, â€œand I do not know
what to do. For, see you, it is a big stake for which I play. No one
but I, Hercule Poirot, would attempt it!â€� And he tapped himself proudly
on the breast.

After pausing a few minutes respectfully, so as not to spoil his
effect, I gave him Lawrenceâ€™s message.

â€œAha!â€� he cried. â€œSo he has found the extra coffee-cup. That is good.
He has more intelligence than would appear, this long-faced Monsieur
Lawrence of yours!â€�

I did not myself think very highly of Lawrenceâ€™s intelligence; but I
forebore to contradict Poirot, and gently took him to task for
forgetting my instructions as to which were Cynthiaâ€™s days off.

â€œIt is true. I have the head of a sieve. However, the other young lady
was most kind. She was sorry for my disappointment, and showed me
everything in the kindest way.â€�

â€œOh, well, thatâ€™s all right, then, and you must go to tea with Cynthia
another day.â€�

I told him about the letter.

â€œI am sorry for that,â€� he said. â€œI always had hopes of that letter. But
no, it was not to be. This affair must all be unravelled from within.â€�
He tapped his forehead. â€œThese little grey cells. It is â€˜up to themâ€™â€”as
you say over here.â€� Then, suddenly, he asked: â€œAre you a judge of
finger-marks, my friend?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I said, rather surprised, â€œI know that there are no two
finger-marks alike, but thatâ€™s as far as my science goes.â€�

â€œExactly.â€�

He unlocked a little drawer, and took out some photographs which he
laid on the table.

â€œI have numbered them, 1, 2, 3. Will you describe them to me?â€�

I studied the proofs attentively.

â€œAll greatly magnified, I see. No. 1, I should say, are a manâ€™s
finger-prints; thumb and first finger. No. 2 are a ladyâ€™s; they are
much smaller, and quite different in every way. No. 3â€�â€”I paused for
some timeâ€”â€œthere seem to be a lot of confused finger-marks, but here,
very distinctly, are No. 1â€™s.â€�

â€œOverlapping the others?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œYou recognize them beyond fail?â€�

â€œOh, yes; they are identical.â€�

Poirot nodded, and gently taking the photographs from me locked them up
again.

â€œI suppose,â€� I said, â€œthat as usual, you are not going to explain?â€�

â€œOn the contrary. No. 1 were the finger-prints of Monsieur Lawrence.
No. 2 were those of Mademoiselle Cynthia. They are not important. I
merely obtained them for comparison. No. 3 is a little more
complicated.â€�

â€œYes?â€�

â€œIt is, as you see, highly magnified. You may have noticed a sort of
blur extending all across the picture. I will not describe to you the
special apparatus, dusting powder, etc., which I used. It is a
well-known process to the police, and by means of it you can obtain a
photograph of the finger-prints of any object in a very short space of
time. Well, my friend, you have seen the finger-marksâ€”it remains to
tell you the particular object on which they had been left.â€�

â€œGo onâ€”I am really excited.â€�

â€œ_Eh bien!_ Photo No. 3 represents the highly magnified surface of a
tiny bottle in the top poison cupboard of the dispensary in the Red
Cross Hospital at Tadminsterâ€”which sounds like the house that Jack
built!â€�

â€œGood heavens!â€� I exclaimed. â€œBut what were Lawrence Cavendishâ€™s
finger-marks doing on it? He never went near the poison cupboard the
day we were there!â€�

â€œOh, yes, he did!â€�

â€œImpossible! We were all together the whole time.â€�

Poirot shook his head.

â€œNo, my friend, there was a moment when you were not all together.
There was a moment when you could not have been all together, or it
would not have been necessary to call to Monsieur Lawrence to come and
join you on the balcony.â€�

â€œIâ€™d forgotten that,â€� I admitted. â€œBut it was only for a moment.â€�

â€œLong enough.â€�

â€œLong enough for what?â€�

Poirotâ€™s smile became rather enigmatical.

â€œLong enough for a gentleman who had once studied medicine to gratify a
very natural interest and curiosity.â€�

Our eyes met. Poirotâ€™s were pleasantly vague. He got up and hummed a
little tune. I watched him suspiciously.

â€œPoirot,â€� I said, â€œwhat was in this particular little bottle?â€�

Poirot looked out of the window.

â€œHydro-chloride of strychnine,â€� he said, over his shoulder, continuing
to hum.

â€œGood heavens!â€� I said it quite quietly. I was not surprised. I had
expected that answer.

â€œThey use the pure hydro-chloride of strychnine very littleâ€”only
occasionally for pills. It is the official solution, Liq. Strychnine
Hydro-clor. that is used in most medicines. That is why the
finger-marks have remained undisturbed since then.â€�

â€œHow did you manage to take this photograph?â€�

â€œI dropped my hat from the balcony,â€� explained Poirot simply. â€œVisitors
were not permitted below at that hour, so, in spite of my many
apologies, Mademoiselle Cynthiaâ€™s colleague had to go down and fetch it
for me.â€�

â€œThen you knew what you were going to find?â€�

â€œNo, not at all. I merely realized that it was possible, from your
story, for Monsieur Lawrence to go to the poison cupboard. The
possibility had to be confirmed, or eliminated.â€�

â€œPoirot,â€� I said, â€œyour gaiety does not deceive me. This is a very
important discovery.â€�

â€œI do not know,â€� said Poirot. â€œBut one thing does strike me. No doubt
it has struck you too.â€�

â€œWhat is that?â€�

â€œWhy, that there is altogether too much strychnine about this case.
This is the third time we run up against it. There was strychnine in
Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s tonic. There is the strychnine sold across the
counter at Styles St. Mary by Mace. Now we have more strychnine,
handled by one of the household. It is confusing; and, as you know, I
do not like confusion.â€�

Before I could reply, one of the other Belgians opened the door and
stuck his head in.

â€œThere is a lady below, asking for Mr Hastings.â€�

â€œA lady?â€�

I jumped up. Poirot followed me down the narrow stairs. Mary Cavendish
was standing in the doorway.

â€œI have been visiting an old woman in the village,â€� she explained, â€œand
as Lawrence told me you were with Monsieur Poirot I thought I would
call for you.â€�

â€œAlas, madame,â€� said Poirot, â€œI thought you had come to honour me with
a visit!â€�

â€œI will some day, if you ask me,â€� she promised him, smiling.

â€œThat is well. If you should need a father confessor, madameâ€�â€”she
started ever so slightlyâ€”â€œremember, Papa Poirot is always at your
service.â€�

She stared at him for a few minutes, as though seeking to read some
deeper meaning into his words. Then she turned abruptly away.

â€œCome, will you not walk back with us too, Monsieur Poirot?â€�

â€œEnchanted, madame.â€�

All the way to Styles, Mary talked fast and feverishly. It struck me
that in some way she was nervous of Poirotâ€™s eyes.

The weather had broken, and the sharp wind was almost autumnal in its
shrewishness. Mary shivered a little, and buttoned her black sports
coat closer. The wind through the trees made a mournful noise, like
some great giant sighing.

We walked up to the great door of Styles, and at once the knowledge
came to us that something was wrong.

Dorcas came running out to meet us. She was crying and wringing her
hands. I was aware of other servants huddled together in the
background, all eyes and ears.

â€œOh, mâ€™am! Oh, mâ€™am! I donâ€™t know how to tell youâ€”â€”â€�

â€œWhat is it, Dorcas?â€� I asked impatiently. â€œTell us at once.â€�

â€œItâ€™s those wicked detectives. Theyâ€™ve arrested himâ€”theyâ€™ve arrested
Mr. Cavendish!â€�

â€œArrested Lawrence?â€� I gasped.

I saw a strange look come into Dorcasâ€™s eyes.

â€œNo, sir. Not Mr. Lawrenceâ€”Mr. John.â€�

Behind me, with a wild cry, Mary Cavendish fell heavily against me, and
as I turned to catch her I met the quiet triumph in Poirotâ€™s eyes.






CHAPTER XI. THE CASE FOR THE PROSECUTION

The trial of John Cavendish for the murder of his stepmother took place
two months later.

Of the intervening weeks I will say little, but my admiration and
sympathy went out unfeignedly to Mary Cavendish. She ranged herself
passionately on her husbandâ€™s side, scorning the mere idea of his
guilt, and fought for him tooth and nail.

I expressed my admiration to Poirot, and he nodded thoughtfully.

â€œYes, she is of those women who show at their best in adversity. It
brings out all that is sweetest and truest in them. Her pride and her
jealousy haveâ€”â€”â€�

â€œJealousy?â€� I queried.

â€œYes. Have you not realized that she is an unusually jealous woman? As
I was saying, her pride and jealousy have been laid aside. She thinks
of nothing but her husband, and the terrible fate that is hanging over
him.â€�

He spoke very feelingly, and I looked at him earnestly, remembering
that last afternoon, when he had been deliberating whether or not to
speak. With his tenderness for â€œa womanâ€™s happiness,â€� I felt glad that
the decision had been taken out of his hands.

â€œEven now,â€� I said, â€œI can hardly believe it. You see, up to the very
last minute, I thought it was Lawrence!â€�

Poirot grinned.

â€œI know you did.â€�

â€œBut John! My old friend John!â€�

â€œEvery murderer is probably somebodyâ€™s old friend,â€� observed Poirot
philosophically. â€œYou cannot mix up sentiment and reason.â€�

â€œI must say I think you might have given me a hint.â€�

â€œPerhaps, _mon ami_, I did not do so, just because he _was_ your old
friend.â€�

I was rather disconcerted by this, remembering how I had busily passed
on to John what I believed to be Poirotâ€™s views concerning Bauerstein.
He, by the way, had been acquitted of the charge brought against him.
Nevertheless, although he had been too clever for them this time, and
the charge of espionage could not be brought home to him, his wings
were pretty well clipped for the future.

I asked Poirot whether he thought John would be condemned. To my
intense surprise, he replied that, on the contrary, he was extremely
likely to be acquitted.

â€œBut, Poirotâ€”â€”â€� I protested.

â€œOh, my friend, have I not said to you all along that I have no proofs.
It is one thing to know that a man is guilty, it is quite another
matter to prove him so. And, in this case, there is terribly little
evidence. That is the whole trouble. I, Hercule Poirot, know, but I
lack the last link in my chain. And unless I can find that missing
linkâ€”â€”â€� He shook his head gravely.

â€œWhen did you first suspect John Cavendish?â€� I asked, after a minute or
two.

â€œDid you not suspect him at all?â€�

â€œNo, indeed.â€�

â€œNot after that fragment of conversation you overheard between Mrs.
Cavendish and her mother-in-law, and her subsequent lack of frankness
at the inquest?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œDid you not put two and two together, and reflect that if it was not
Alfred Inglethorp who was quarrelling with his wifeâ€”and you remember,
he strenuously denied it at the inquestâ€”it must be either Lawrence or
John. Now, if it was Lawrence, Mary Cavendishâ€™s conduct was just as
inexplicable. But if, on the other hand, it was John, the whole thing
was explained quite naturally.â€�

â€œSo,â€� I cried, a light breaking in upon me, â€œit was John who quarrelled
with his mother that afternoon?â€�

â€œExactly.â€�

â€œAnd you have known this all along?â€�

â€œCertainly. Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s behaviour could only be explained that
way.â€�

â€œAnd yet you say he may be acquitted?â€�

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

â€œCertainly I do. At the police court proceedings, we shall hear the
case for the prosecution, but in all probability his solicitors will
advise him to reserve his defence. That will be sprung upon us at the
trial. Andâ€”ah, by the way, I have a word of caution to give you, my
friend. I must not appear in the case.â€�

â€œWhat?â€�

â€œNo. Officially, I have nothing to do with it. Until I have found that
last link in my chain, I must remain behind the scenes. Mrs. Cavendish
must think I am working for her husband, not against him.â€�

â€œI say, thatâ€™s playing it a bit low down,â€� I protested.

â€œNot at all. We have to deal with a most clever and unscrupulous man,
and we must use any means in our powerâ€”otherwise he will slip through
our fingers. That is why I have been careful to remain in the
background. All the discoveries have been made by Japp, and Japp will
take all the credit. If I am called upon to give evidence at allâ€�â€”he
smiled broadlyâ€”â€œit will probably be as a witness for the defence.â€�

I could hardly believe my ears.

â€œIt is quite _en rÃ¨gle_,â€� continued Poirot. â€œStrangely enough, I can
give evidence that will demolish one contention of the prosecution.â€�

â€œWhich one?â€�

â€œThe one that relates to the destruction of the will. John Cavendish
did not destroy that will.â€�

Poirot was a true prophet. I will not go into the details of the police
court proceedings, as it involves many tiresome repetitions. I will
merely state baldly that John Cavendish reserved his defence, and was
duly committed for trial.

September found us all in London. Mary took a house in Kensington,
Poirot being included in the family party.

I myself had been given a job at the War Office, so was able to see
them continually.

As the weeks went by, the state of Poirotâ€™s nerves grew worse and
worse. That â€œlast linkâ€� he talked about was still lacking. Privately, I
hoped it might remain so, for what happiness could there be for Mary,
if John were not acquitted?

On September 15th John Cavendish appeared in the dock at the Old
Bailey, charged with â€œThe Wilful Murder of Emily Agnes Inglethorp,â€� and
pleaded â€œNot Guilty.â€�

Sir Ernest Heavywether, the famous K.C., had been engaged to defend
him.

Mr. Philips, K.C., opened the case for the Crown.

The murder, he said, was a most premeditated and cold-blooded one. It
was neither more nor less than the deliberate poisoning of a fond and
trusting woman by the stepson to whom she had been more than a mother.
Ever since his boyhood, she had supported him. He and his wife had
lived at Styles Court in every luxury, surrounded by her care and
attention. She had been their kind and generous benefactress.

He proposed to call witnesses to show how the prisoner, a profligate
and spendthrift, had been at the end of his financial tether, and had
also been carrying on an intrigue with a certain Mrs. Raikes, a
neighbouring farmerâ€™s wife. This having come to his stepmotherâ€™s ears,
she taxed him with it on the afternoon before her death, and a quarrel
ensued, part of which was overheard. On the previous day, the prisoner
had purchased strychnine at the village chemistâ€™s shop, wearing a
disguise by means of which he hoped to throw the onus of the crime upon
another manâ€”to wit, Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s husband, of whom he had been
bitterly jealous. Luckily for Mr. Inglethorp, he had been able to
produce an unimpeachable alibi.

On the afternoon of July 17th, continued Counsel, immediately after the
quarrel with her son, Mrs. Inglethorp made a new will. This will was
found destroyed in the grate of her bedroom the following morning, but
evidence had come to light which showed that it had been drawn up in
favour of her husband. Deceased had already made a will in his favour
before her marriage, butâ€”and Mr. Philips wagged an expressive
forefingerâ€”the prisoner was not aware of that. What had induced the
deceased to make a fresh will, with the old one still extant, he could
not say. She was an old lady, and might possibly have forgotten the
former one; orâ€”this seemed to him more likelyâ€”she may have had an idea
that it was revoked by her marriage, as there had been some
conversation on the subject. Ladies were not always very well versed in
legal knowledge. She had, about a year before, executed a will in
favour of the prisoner. He would call evidence to show that it was the
prisoner who ultimately handed his stepmother her coffee on the fatal
night. Later in the evening, he had sought admission to her room, on
which occasion, no doubt, he found an opportunity of destroying the
will which, as far as he knew, would render the one in his favour
valid.

The prisoner had been arrested in consequence of the discovery, in his
room, by Detective Inspector Jappâ€”a most brilliant officerâ€”of the
identical phial of strychnine which had been sold at the village
chemistâ€™s to the supposed Mr. Inglethorp on the day before the murder.
It would be for the jury to decide whether or not these damning facts
constituted an overwhelming proof of the prisonerâ€™s guilt.

And, subtly implying that a jury which did not so decide, was quite
unthinkable, Mr. Philips sat down and wiped his forehead.

The first witnesses for the prosecution were mostly those who had been
called at the inquest, the medical evidence being again taken first.

Sir Ernest Heavywether, who was famous all over England for the
unscrupulous manner in which he bullied witnesses, only asked two
questions.

â€œI take it, Dr. Bauerstein, that strychnine, as a drug, acts quickly?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œAnd that you are unable to account for the delay in this case?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œThank you.â€�

Mr. Mace identified the phial handed him by Counsel as that sold by him
to â€œMr. Inglethorp.â€� Pressed, he admitted that he only knew Mr.
Inglethorp by sight. He had never spoken to him. The witness was not
cross-examined.

Alfred Inglethorp was called, and denied having purchased the poison.
He also denied having quarrelled with his wife. Various witnesses
testified to the accuracy of these statements.

The gardenersâ€™ evidence, as to the witnessing of the will was taken,
and then Dorcas was called.

Dorcas, faithful to her â€œyoung gentlemen,â€� denied strenuously that it
could have been Johnâ€™s voice she heard, and resolutely declared, in the
teeth of everything, that it was Mr. Inglethorp who had been in the
boudoir with her mistress. A rather wistful smile passed across the
face of the prisoner in the dock. He knew only too well how useless her
gallant defiance was, since it was not the object of the defence to
deny this point. Mrs. Cavendish, of course, could not be called upon to
give evidence against her husband.

After various questions on other matters, Mr. Philips asked:

â€œIn the month of June last, do you remember a parcel arriving for Mr.
Lawrence Cavendish from Parksonâ€™s?â€�

Dorcas shook her head.

â€œI donâ€™t remember, sir. It may have done, but Mr. Lawrence was away
from home part of June.â€�

â€œIn the event of a parcel arriving for him whilst he was away, what
would be done with it?â€�

â€œIt would either be put in his room or sent on after him.â€�

â€œBy you?â€�

â€œNo, sir, I should leave it on the hall table. It would be Miss Howard
who would attend to anything like that.â€�

Evelyn Howard was called and, after being examined on other points, was
questioned as to the parcel.

â€œDonâ€™t remember. Lots of parcels come. Canâ€™t remember one special one.â€�

â€œYou do not know if it was sent after Mr. Lawrence Cavendish to Wales,
or whether it was put in his room?â€�

â€œDonâ€™t think it was sent after him. Should have remembered it if it
was.â€�

â€œSupposing a parcel arrived addressed to Mr. Lawrence Cavendish, and
afterwards it disappeared, should you remark its absence?â€�

â€œNo, donâ€™t think so. I should think someone had taken charge of it.â€�

â€œI believe, Miss Howard, that it was you who found this sheet of brown
paper?â€� He held up the same dusty piece which Poirot and I had examined
in the morning-room at Styles.

â€œYes, I did.â€�

â€œHow did you come to look for it?â€�

â€œThe Belgian detective who was employed on the case asked me to search
for it.â€�

â€œWhere did you eventually discover it?â€�

â€œOn the top ofâ€”ofâ€”a wardrobe.â€�

â€œOn top of the prisonerâ€™s wardrobe?â€�

â€œIâ€”I believe so.â€�

â€œDid you not find it yourself?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œThen you must know where you found it?â€�

â€œYes, it was on the prisonerâ€™s wardrobe.â€�

â€œThat is better.â€�

An assistant from Parksonâ€™s, Theatrical Costumiers, testified that on
June 29th, they had supplied a black beard to Mr. L. Cavendish, as
requested. It was ordered by letter, and a postal order was enclosed.
No, they had not kept the letter. All transactions were entered in
their books. They had sent the beard, as directed, to â€œL. Cavendish,
Esq., Styles Court.â€�

Sir Ernest Heavywether rose ponderously.

â€œWhere was the letter written from?â€�

â€œFrom Styles Court.â€�

â€œThe same address to which you sent the parcel?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œAnd the letter came from there?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

Like a beast of prey, Heavywether fell upon him:

â€œHow do you know?â€�

â€œIâ€”I donâ€™t understand.â€�

â€œHow do you know that letter came from Styles? Did you notice the
postmark?â€�

â€œNoâ€”butâ€”â€”â€�

â€œAh, you did _not_ notice the postmark! And yet you affirm so
confidently that it came from Styles. It might, in fact, have been any
postmark?â€�

â€œYâ€”es.â€�

â€œIn fact, the letter, though written on stamped notepaper, might have
been posted from anywhere? From Wales, for instance?â€�

The witness admitted that such might be the case, and Sir Ernest
signified that he was satisfied.

Elizabeth Wells, second housemaid at Styles, stated that after she had
gone to bed she remembered that she had bolted the front door, instead
of leaving it on the latch as Mr. Inglethorp had requested. She had
accordingly gone downstairs again to rectify her error. Hearing a
slight noise in the West wing, she had peeped along the passage, and
had seen Mr. John Cavendish knocking at Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s door.

Sir Ernest Heavywether made short work of her, and under his unmerciful
bullying she contradicted herself hopelessly, and Sir Ernest sat down
again with a satisfied smile on his face.

With the evidence of Annie, as to the candle grease on the floor, and
as to seeing the prisoner take the coffee into the boudoir, the
proceedings were adjourned until the following day.

As we went home, Mary Cavendish spoke bitterly against the prosecuting
counsel.

â€œThat hateful man! What a net he has drawn around my poor John! How he
twisted every little fact until he made it seem what it wasnâ€™t!â€�

â€œWell,â€� I said consolingly, â€œit will be the other way about to-morrow.â€�

â€œYes,â€� she said meditatively; then suddenly dropped her voice. â€œMr.
Hastings, you do not thinkâ€”surely it could not have been Lawrenceâ€”Oh,
no, that could not be!â€�

But I myself was puzzled, and as soon as I was alone with Poirot I
asked him what he thought Sir Ernest was driving at.

â€œAh!â€� said Poirot appreciatively. â€œHe is a clever man, that Sir
Ernest.â€�

â€œDo you think he believes Lawrence guilty?â€�

â€œI do not think he believes or cares anything! No, what he is trying
for is to create such confusion in the minds of the jury that they are
divided in their opinion as to which brother did it. He is endeavouring
to make out that there is quite as much evidence against Lawrence as
against Johnâ€”and I am not at all sure that he will not succeed.â€�

Detective-inspector Japp was the first witness called when the trial
was reopened, and gave his evidence succinctly and briefly. After
relating the earlier events, he proceeded:

â€œActing on information received, Superintendent Summerhaye and myself
searched the prisonerâ€™s room, during his temporary absence from the
house. In his chest of drawers, hidden beneath some underclothing, we
found: first, a pair of gold-rimmed pince-nez similar to those worn by
Mr. Inglethorpâ€�â€”these were exhibitedâ€”â€œsecondly, this phial.â€�

The phial was that already recognized by the chemistâ€™s assistant, a
tiny bottle of blue glass, containing a few grains of a white
crystalline powder, and labelled: â€œStrychnine Hydro-chloride. POISON.â€�

A fresh piece of evidence discovered by the detectives since the police
court proceedings was a long, almost new piece of blotting-paper. It
had been found in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s cheque book, and on being reversed
at a mirror, showed clearly the words: â€œ. . . erything of which I die
possessed I leave to my beloved husband Alfred Ing...â€� This placed
beyond question the fact that the destroyed will had been in favour of
the deceased ladyâ€™s husband. Japp then produced the charred fragment of
paper recovered from the grate, and this, with the discovery of the
beard in the attic, completed his evidence.

But Sir Ernestâ€™s cross-examination was yet to come.

â€œWhat day was it when you searched the prisonerâ€™s room?â€�

â€œTuesday, the 24th of July.â€�

â€œExactly a week after the tragedy?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œYou found these two objects, you say, in the chest of drawers. Was the
drawer unlocked?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œDoes it not strike you as unlikely that a man who had committed a
crime should keep the evidence of it in an unlocked drawer for anyone
to find?â€�

â€œHe might have stowed them there in a hurry.â€�

â€œBut you have just said it was a whole week since the crime. He would
have had ample time to remove them and destroy them.â€�

â€œPerhaps.â€�

â€œThere is no perhaps about it. Would he, or would he not have had
plenty of time to remove and destroy them?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œWas the pile of underclothes under which the things were hidden heavy
or light?â€�

â€œHeavyish.â€�

â€œIn other words, it was winter underclothing. Obviously, the prisoner
would not be likely to go to that drawer?â€�

â€œPerhaps not.â€�

â€œKindly answer my question. Would the prisoner, in the hottest week of
a hot summer, be likely to go to a drawer containing winter
underclothing. Yes, or no?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œIn that case, is it not possible that the articles in question might
have been put there by a third person, and that the prisoner was quite
unaware of their presence?â€�

â€œI should not think it likely.â€�

â€œBut it is possible?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œThat is all.â€�

More evidence followed. Evidence as to the financial difficulties in
which the prisoner had found himself at the end of July. Evidence as to
his intrigue with Mrs. Raikesâ€”poor Mary, that must have been bitter
hearing for a woman of her pride. Evelyn Howard had been right in her
facts, though her animosity against Alfred Inglethorp had caused her to
jump to the conclusion that he was the person concerned.

Lawrence Cavendish was then put into the box. In a low voice, in answer
to Mr. Philipsâ€™ questions, he denied having ordered anything from
Parksonâ€™s in June. In fact, on June 29th, he had been staying away, in
Wales.

Instantly, Sir Ernestâ€™s chin was shooting pugnaciously forward.

â€œYou deny having ordered a black beard from Parksonâ€™s on June 29th?â€�

â€œI do.â€�

â€œAh! In the event of anything happening to your brother, who will
inherit Styles Court?â€�

The brutality of the question called a flush to Lawrenceâ€™s pale face.
The judge gave vent to a faint murmur of disapprobation, and the
prisoner in the dock leant forward angrily.

Heavywether cared nothing for his clientâ€™s anger.

â€œAnswer my question, if you please.â€�

â€œI suppose,â€� said Lawrence quietly, â€œthat I should.â€�

â€œWhat do you mean by you â€˜supposeâ€™? Your brother has no children. You
_would_ inherit it, wouldnâ€™t you?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œAh, thatâ€™s better,â€� said Heavywether, with ferocious geniality. â€œAnd
youâ€™d inherit a good slice of money too, wouldnâ€™t you?â€�

â€œReally, Sir Ernest,â€� protested the judge, â€œthese questions are not
relevant.â€�

Sir Ernest bowed, and having shot his arrow proceeded.

â€œOn Tuesday, the 17th July, you went, I believe, with another guest, to
visit the dispensary at the Red Cross Hospital in Tadminster?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œDid youâ€”while you happened to be alone for a few secondsâ€”unlock the
poison cupboard, and examine some of the bottles?â€�

â€œIâ€”Iâ€”may have done so.â€�

â€œI put it to you that you did do so?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

Sir Ernest fairly shot the next question at him.

â€œDid you examine one bottle in particular?â€�

â€œNo, I do not think so.â€�

â€œBe careful, Mr. Cavendish. I am referring to a little bottle of
Hydro-chloride of Strychnine.â€�

Lawrence was turning a sickly greenish colour.

â€œNâ€”oâ€”I am sure I didnâ€™t.â€�

â€œThen how do you account for the fact that you left the unmistakable
impress of your finger-prints on it?â€�

The bullying manner was highly efficacious with a nervous disposition.

â€œIâ€”I suppose I must have taken up the bottle.â€�

â€œI suppose so too! Did you abstract any of the contents of the bottle?â€�

â€œCertainly not.â€�

â€œThen why did you take it up?â€�

â€œI once studied to be a doctor. Such things naturally interest me.â€�

â€œAh! So poisons â€˜naturally interestâ€™ you, do they? Still, you waited to
be alone before gratifying that â€˜interestâ€™ of yours?â€�

â€œThat was pure chance. If the others had been there, I should have done
just the same.â€�

â€œStill, as it happens, the others were not there?â€�

â€œNo, butâ€”â€”â€�

â€œIn fact, during the whole afternoon, you were only alone for a couple
of minutes, and it happenedâ€”I say, it happenedâ€”to be during those two
minutes that you displayed your â€˜natural interestâ€™ in Hydro-chloride of
Strychnine?â€�

Lawrence stammered pitiably.

â€œIâ€”Iâ€”â€”â€�

With a satisfied and expressive countenance, Sir Ernest observed:

â€œI have nothing more to ask you, Mr. Cavendish.â€�

This bit of cross-examination had caused great excitement in court. The
heads of the many fashionably attired women present were busily laid
together, and their whispers became so loud that the judge angrily
threatened to have the court cleared if there was not immediate
silence.

There was little more evidence. The hand-writing experts were called
upon for their opinion of the signature of â€œAlfred Inglethorpâ€� in the
chemistâ€™s poison register. They all declared unanimously that it was
certainly not his hand-writing, and gave it as their view that it might
be that of the prisoner disguised. Cross-examined, they admitted that
it might be the prisonerâ€™s hand-writing cleverly counterfeited.

Sir Ernest Heavywetherâ€™s speech in opening the case for the defence was
not a long one, but it was backed by the full force of his emphatic
manner. Never, he said, in the course of his long experience, had he
known a charge of murder rest on slighter evidence. Not only was it
entirely circumstantial, but the greater part of it was practically
unproved. Let them take the testimony they had heard and sift it
impartially. The strychnine had been found in a drawer in the
prisonerâ€™s room. That drawer was an unlocked one, as he had pointed
out, and he submitted that there was no evidence to prove that it was
the prisoner who had concealed the poison there. It was, in fact, a
wicked and malicious attempt on the part of some third person to fix
the crime on the prisoner. The prosecution had been unable to produce a
shred of evidence in support of their contention that it was the
prisoner who ordered the black beard from Parksonâ€™s. The quarrel which
had taken place between prisoner and his stepmother was freely
admitted, but both it and his financial embarrassments had been grossly
exaggerated.

His learned friendâ€”Sir Ernest nodded carelessly at Mr. Philipsâ€”had
stated that if the prisoner were an innocent man, he would have come
forward at the inquest to explain that it was he, and not Mr.
Inglethorp, who had been the participator in the quarrel. He thought
the facts had been misrepresented. What had actually occurred was this.
The prisoner, returning to the house on Tuesday evening, had been
authoritatively told that there had been a violent quarrel between Mr.
and Mrs. Inglethorp. No suspicion had entered the prisonerâ€™s head that
anyone could possibly have mistaken his voice for that of Mr.
Inglethorp. He naturally concluded that his stepmother had had two
quarrels.

The prosecution averred that on Monday, July 16th, the prisoner had
entered the chemistâ€™s shop in the village, disguised as Mr. Inglethorp.
The prisoner, on the contrary, was at that time at a lonely spot called
Marstonâ€™s Spinney, where he had been summoned by an anonymous note,
couched in blackmailing terms, and threatening to reveal certain
matters to his wife unless he complied with its demands. The prisoner
had, accordingly, gone to the appointed spot, and after waiting there
vainly for half an hour had returned home. Unfortunately, he had met
with no one on the way there or back who could vouch for the truth of
his story, but luckily he had kept the note, and it would be produced
as evidence.

As for the statement relating to the destruction of the will, the
prisoner had formerly practised at the Bar, and was perfectly well
aware that the will made in his favour a year before was automatically
revoked by his stepmotherâ€™s remarriage. He would call evidence to show
who did destroy the will, and it was possible that that might open up
quite a new view of the case.

Finally, he would point out to the jury that there was evidence against
other people besides John Cavendish. He would direct their attention to
the fact that the evidence against Mr. Lawrence Cavendish was quite as
strong, if not stronger than that against his brother.

He would now call the prisoner.

John acquitted himself well in the witness-box. Under Sir Ernestâ€™s
skilful handling, he told his tale credibly and well. The anonymous
note received by him was produced, and handed to the jury to examine.
The readiness with which he admitted his financial difficulties, and
the disagreement with his stepmother, lent value to his denials.

At the close of his examination, he paused, and said:

â€œI should like to make one thing clear. I utterly reject and disapprove
of Sir Ernest Heavywetherâ€™s insinuations against my brother. My
brother, I am convinced, had no more to do with the crime than I have.â€�

Sir Ernest merely smiled, and noted with a sharp eye that Johnâ€™s
protest had produced a very favourable impression on the jury.

Then the cross-examination began.

â€œI understand you to say that it never entered your head that the
witnesses at the inquest could possibly have mistaken your voice for
that of Mr. Inglethorp. Is not that very surprising?â€�

â€œNo, I donâ€™t think so. I was told there had been a quarrel between my
mother and Mr. Inglethorp, and it never occurred to me that such was
not really the case.â€�

â€œNot when the servant Dorcas repeated certain fragments of the
conversationâ€”fragments which you must have recognized?â€�

â€œI did not recognize them.â€�

â€œYour memory must be unusually short!â€�

â€œNo, but we were both angry, and, I think, said more than we meant. I
paid very little attention to my motherâ€™s actual words.â€�

Mr. Philipsâ€™ incredulous sniff was a triumph of forensic skill. He
passed on to the subject of the note.

â€œYou have produced this note very opportunely. Tell me, is there
nothing familiar about the hand-writing of it?â€�

â€œNot that I know of.â€�

â€œDo you not think that it bears a marked resemblance to your own
hand-writingâ€”carelessly disguised?â€�

â€œNo, I do not think so.â€�

â€œI put it to you that it is your own hand-writing!â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œI put it to you that, anxious to prove an alibi, you conceived the
idea of a fictitious and rather incredible appointment, and wrote this
note yourself in order to bear out your statement!â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œIs it not a fact that, at the time you claim to have been waiting
about at a solitary and unfrequented spot, you were really in the
chemistâ€™s shop in Styles St. Mary, where you purchased strychnine in
the name of Alfred Inglethorp?â€�

â€œNo, that is a lie.â€�

â€œI put it to you that, wearing a suit of Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s clothes, with
a black beard trimmed to resemble his, you were thereâ€”and signed the
register in his name!â€�

â€œThat is absolutely untrue.â€�

â€œThen I will leave the remarkable similarity of hand-writing between
the note, the register, and your own, to the consideration of the
jury,â€� said Mr. Philips, and sat down with the air of a man who has
done his duty, but who was nevertheless horrified by such deliberate
perjury.

After this, as it was growing late, the case was adjourned till Monday.

Poirot, I noticed, was looking profoundly discouraged. He had that
little frown between the eyes that I knew so well.

â€œWhat is it, Poirot?â€� I inquired.

â€œAh, _mon ami_, things are going badly, badly.â€�

In spite of myself, my heart gave a leap of relief. Evidently there was
a likelihood of John Cavendish being acquitted.

When we reached the house, my little friend waved aside Maryâ€™s offer of
tea.

â€œNo, I thank you, madame. I will mount to my room.â€�

I followed him. Still frowning, he went across to the desk and took out
a small pack of patience cards. Then he drew up a chair to the table,
and, to my utter amazement, began solemnly to build card houses!

My jaw dropped involuntarily, and he said at once:

â€œNo, _mon ami_, I am not in my second childhood! I steady my nerves,
that is all. This employment requires precision of the fingers. With
precision of the fingers goes precision of the brain. And never have I
needed that more than now!â€�

â€œWhat is the trouble?â€� I asked.

With a great thump on the table, Poirot demolished his carefully built
up edifice.

â€œIt is this, _mon ami!_ That I can build card houses seven stories
high, but I cannotâ€�â€”thumpâ€”â€œfindâ€�â€”thumpâ€”â€œ that last link of which I
spoke to you.â€�

I could not quite tell what to say, so I held my peace, and he began
slowly building up the cards again, speaking in jerks as he did so.

â€œIt is doneâ€”so! By placingâ€”one cardâ€”on anotherâ€”with
mathematicalâ€”precision!â€�

I watched the card house rising under his hands, story by story. He
never hesitated or faltered. It was really almost like a conjuring
trick.

â€œWhat a steady hand youâ€™ve got,â€� I remarked. â€œI believe Iâ€™ve only seen
your hand shake once.â€�

â€œOn an occasion when I was enraged, without doubt,â€� observed Poirot,
with great placidity.

â€œYes indeed! You were in a towering rage. Do you remember? It was when
you discovered that the lock of the despatch-case in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
bedroom had been forced. You stood by the mantelpiece, twiddling the
things on it in your usual fashion, and your hand shook like a leaf! I
must sayâ€”â€”â€�

But I stopped suddenly. For Poirot, uttering a hoarse and inarticulate
cry, again annihilated his masterpiece of cards, and putting his hands
over his eyes swayed backwards and forwards, apparently suffering the
keenest agony.

â€œGood heavens, Poirot!â€� I cried. â€œWhat is the matter? Are you taken
ill?â€�

â€œNo, no,â€� he gasped. â€œIt isâ€”it isâ€”that I have an idea!â€�

â€œOh!â€� I exclaimed, much relieved. â€œOne of your â€˜little ideasâ€™?â€�

â€œAh, _ma foi_, no!â€� replied Poirot frankly. â€œThis time it is an idea
gigantic! Stupendous! And youâ€”_you_, my friend, have given it to me!â€�

Suddenly clasping me in his arms, he kissed me warmly on both cheeks,
and before I had recovered from my surprise ran headlong from the room.

Mary Cavendish entered at that moment.

â€œWhat _is_ the matter with Monsieur Poirot? He rushed past me crying
out: â€˜A garage! For the love of Heaven, direct me to a garage, madame!â€™
And, before I could answer, he had dashed out into the street.â€�

I hurried to the window. True enough, there he was, tearing down the
street, hatless, and gesticulating as he went. I turned to Mary with a
gesture of despair.

â€œHeâ€™ll be stopped by a policeman in another minute. There he goes,
round the corner!â€�

Our eyes met, and we stared helplessly at one another.

â€œWhat can be the matter?â€�

I shook my head.

â€œI donâ€™t know. He was building card houses, when suddenly he said he
had an idea, and rushed off as you saw.â€�

â€œWell,â€� said Mary, â€œI expect he will be back before dinner.â€�

But night fell, and Poirot had not returned.






CHAPTER XII. THE LAST LINK

Poirotâ€™s abrupt departure had intrigued us all greatly. Sunday morning
wore away, and still he did not reappear. But about three oâ€™clock a
ferocious and prolonged hooting outside drove us to the window, to see
Poirot alighting from a car, accompanied by Japp and Summerhaye. The
little man was transformed. He radiated an absurd complacency. He bowed
with exaggerated respect to Mary Cavendish.

â€œMadame, I have your permission to hold a little _rÃ©union_ in the
_salon_? It is necessary for everyone to attend.â€�

Mary smiled sadly.

â€œYou know, Monsieur Poirot, that you have _carte blanche_ in every
way.â€�

â€œYou are too amiable, madame.â€�

Still beaming, Poirot marshalled us all into the drawing-room, bringing
forward chairs as he did so.

â€œMiss Howardâ€”here. Mademoiselle Cynthia. Monsieur Lawrence. The good
Dorcas. And Annie. _Bien!_ We must delay our proceedings a few minutes
until Mr. Inglethorp arrives. I have sent him a note.â€�

Miss Howard rose immediately from her seat.

â€œIf that man comes into the house, I leave it!â€�

â€œNo, no!â€� Poirot went up to her and pleaded in a low voice.

Finally Miss Howard consented to return to her chair. A few minutes
later Alfred Inglethorp entered the room.

The company once assembled, Poirot rose from his seat with the air of a
popular lecturer, and bowed politely to his audience.

â€œ_Messieurs, mesdames_, as you all know, I was called in by Monsieur
John Cavendish to investigate this case. I at once examined the bedroom
of the deceased which, by the advice of the doctors, had been kept
locked, and was consequently exactly as it had been when the tragedy
occurred. I found: first, a fragment of green material; second, a stain
on the carpet near the window, still damp; thirdly, an empty box of
bromide powders.

â€œTo take the fragment of green material first, I found it caught in the
bolt of the communicating door between that room and the adjoining one
occupied by Mademoiselle Cynthia. I handed the fragment over to the
police who did not consider it of much importance. Nor did they
recognize it for what it wasâ€”a piece torn from a green land armlet.â€�

There was a little stir of excitement.

â€œNow there was only one person at Styles who worked on the landâ€”Mrs.
Cavendish. Therefore it must have been Mrs. Cavendish who entered the
deceasedâ€™s room through the door communicating with Mademoiselle
Cynthiaâ€™s room.â€�

â€œBut that door was bolted on the inside!â€� I cried.

â€œWhen I examined the room, yes. But in the first place we have only her
word for it, since it was she who tried that particular door and
reported it fastened. In the ensuing confusion she would have had ample
opportunity to shoot the bolt across. I took an early opportunity of
verifying my conjectures. To begin with, the fragment corresponds
exactly with a tear in Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s armlet. Also, at the inquest,
Mrs. Cavendish declared that she had heard, from her own room, the fall
of the table by the bed. I took an early opportunity of testing that
statement by stationing my friend Monsieur Hastings in the left wing of
the building, just outside Mrs. Cavendishâ€™s door. I myself, in company
with the police, went to the deceasedâ€™s room, and whilst there I,
apparently accidentally, knocked over the table in question, but found
that, as I had expected, Monsieur Hastings had heard no sound at all.
This confirmed my belief that Mrs. Cavendish was not speaking the truth
when she declared that she had been dressing in her room at the time of
the tragedy. In fact, I was convinced that, far from having been in her
own room, Mrs. Cavendish was actually in the deceasedâ€™s room when the
alarm was given.â€�

I shot a quick glance at Mary. She was very pale, but smiling.

â€œI proceeded to reason on that assumption. Mrs. Cavendish is in her
mother-in-lawâ€™s room. We will say that she is seeking for something and
has not yet found it. Suddenly Mrs. Inglethorp awakens and is seized
with an alarming paroxysm. She flings out her arm, overturning the bed
table, and then pulls desperately at the bell. Mrs. Cavendish,
startled, drops her candle, scattering the grease on the carpet. She
picks it up, and retreats quickly to Mademoiselle Cynthiaâ€™s room,
closing the door behind her. She hurries out into the passage, for the
servants must not find her where she is. But it is too late! Already
footsteps are echoing along the gallery which connects the two wings.
What can she do? Quick as thought, she hurries back to the young girlâ€™s
room, and starts shaking her awake. The hastily aroused household come
trooping down the passage. They are all busily battering at Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s door. It occurs to nobody that Mrs. Cavendish has not
arrived with the rest, butâ€”and this is significantâ€”I can find no one
who saw her come from the other wing.â€� He looked at Mary Cavendish. â€œAm
I right, madame?â€�

She bowed her head.

â€œQuite right, monsieur. You understand that, if I had thought I would
do my husband any good by revealing these facts, I would have done so.
But it did not seem to me to bear upon the question of his guilt or
innocence.â€�

â€œIn a sense, that is correct, madame. But it cleared my mind of many
misconceptions, and left me free to see other facts in their true
significance.â€�

â€œThe will!â€� cried Lawrence. â€œThen it was you, Mary, who destroyed the
will?â€�

She shook her head, and Poirot shook his also.

â€œNo,â€� he said quietly. â€œThere is only one person who could possibly
have destroyed that willâ€”Mrs. Inglethorp herself!â€�

â€œImpossible!â€� I exclaimed. â€œShe had only made it out that very
afternoon!â€�

â€œNevertheless, _mon ami_, it was Mrs. Inglethorp. Because, in no other
way can you account for the fact that, on one of the hottest days of
the year, Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire to be lighted in her room.â€�

I gave a gasp. What idiots we had been never to think of that fire as
being incongruous! Poirot was continuing:

â€œThe temperature on that day, messieurs, was 80 degrees in the shade.
Yet Mrs. Inglethorp ordered a fire! Why? Because she wished to destroy
something, and could think of no other way. You will remember that, in
consequence of the War economics practiced at Styles, no waste paper
was thrown away. There was therefore no means of destroying a thick
document such as a will. The moment I heard of a fire being lighted in
Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room, I leaped to the conclusion that it was to
destroy some important documentâ€”possibly a will. So the discovery of
the charred fragment in the grate was no surprise to me. I did not, of
course, know at the time that the will in question had only been made
this afternoon, and I will admit that, when I learnt that fact, I fell
into a grievous error. I came to the conclusion that Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
determination to destroy her will arose as a direct consequence of the
quarrel she had that afternoon, and that therefore the quarrel took
place after, and not before the making of the will.

â€œHere, as we know, I was wrong, and I was forced to abandon that idea.
I faced the problem from a new standpoint. Now, at four oâ€™clock, Dorcas
overheard her mistress saying angrily: â€˜You need not think that any
fear of publicity, or scandal between husband and wife will deter me.â€�
I conjectured, and conjectured rightly, that these words were
addressed, not to her husband, but to Mr. John Cavendish. At five
oâ€™clock, an hour later, she uses almost the same words, but the
standpoint is different. She admits to Dorcas, â€˜I donâ€™t know what to
do; scandal between husband and wife is a dreadful thing.â€™ At four
oâ€™clock she has been angry, but completely mistress of herself. At five
oâ€™clock she is in violent distress, and speaks of having had a great
shock.

â€œLooking at the matter psychologically, I drew one deduction which I
was convinced was correct. The second â€˜scandalâ€™ she spoke of was not
the same as the firstâ€”and it concerned herself!

â€œLet us reconstruct. At four oâ€™clock, Mrs. Inglethorp quarrels with her
son, and threatens to denounce him to his wifeâ€”who, by the way,
overheard the greater part of the conversation. At four-thirty, Mrs.
Inglethorp, in consequence of a conversation on the validity of wills,
makes a will in favour of her husband, which the two gardeners witness.
At five oâ€™clock, Dorcas finds her mistress in a state of considerable
agitation, with a slip of paperâ€”â€˜a letter,â€™ Dorcas thinksâ€”in her hand,
and it is then that she orders the fire in her room to be lighted.
Presumably, then, between four-thirty and five oâ€™clock, something has
occurred to occasion a complete revolution of feeling, since she is now
as anxious to destroy the will, as she was before to make it. What was
that something?

â€œAs far as we know, she was quite alone during that half-hour. Nobody
entered or left that boudoir. What then occasioned this sudden change
of sentiment?

â€œOne can only guess, but I believe my guess to be correct. Mrs.
Inglethorp had no stamps in her desk. We know this, because later she
asked Dorcas to bring her some. Now in the opposite corner of the room
stood her husbandâ€™s deskâ€”locked. She was anxious to find some stamps,
and, according to my theory, she tried her own keys in the desk. That
one of them fitted I know. She therefore opened the desk, and in
searching for the stamps she came across something elseâ€”that slip of
paper which Dorcas saw in her hand, and which assuredly was never meant
for Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s eyes. On the other hand, Mrs. Cavendish believed
that the slip of paper to which her mother-in-law clung so tenaciously
was a written proof of her own husbandâ€™s infidelity. She demanded it
from Mrs. Inglethorp who assured her, quite truly, that it had nothing
to do with that matter. Mrs. Cavendish did not believe her. She thought
that Mrs. Inglethorp was shielding her stepson. Now Mrs. Cavendish is a
very resolute woman, and, behind her mask of reserve, she was madly
jealous of her husband. She determined to get hold of that paper at all
costs, and in this resolution chance came to her aid. She happened to
pick up the key of Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s despatch-case, which had been lost
that morning. She knew that her mother-in-law invariably kept all
important papers in this particular case.

â€œMrs. Cavendish, therefore, made her plans as only a woman driven
desperate through jealousy could have done. Some time in the evening
she unbolted the door leading into Mademoiselle Cynthiaâ€™s room.
Possibly she applied oil to the hinges, for I found that it opened
quite noiselessly when I tried it. She put off her project until the
early hours of the morning as being safer, since the servants were
accustomed to hearing her move about her room at that time. She dressed
completely in her land kit, and made her way quietly through
Mademoiselle Cynthiaâ€™s room into that of Mrs. Inglethorp.â€�

He paused a moment, and Cynthia interrupted:

â€œBut I should have woken up if anyone had come through my room?â€�

â€œNot if you were drugged, mademoiselle.â€�

â€œDrugged?â€�

â€œ_Mais, oui!_â€�

â€œYou rememberâ€�â€”he addressed us collectively againâ€”â€œthat through all the
tumult and noise next door Mademoiselle Cynthia slept. That admitted of
two possibilities. Either her sleep was feignedâ€”which I did not
believeâ€”or her unconsciousness was indeed by artificial means.

â€œWith this latter idea in my mind, I examined all the coffee-cups most
carefully, remembering that it was Mrs. Cavendish who had brought
Mademoiselle Cynthia her coffee the night before. I took a sample from
each cup, and had them analysedâ€”with no result. I had counted the cups
carefully, in the event of one having been removed. Six persons had
taken coffee, and six cups were duly found. I had to confess myself
mistaken.

â€œThen I discovered that I had been guilty of a very grave oversight.
Coffee had been brought in for seven persons, not six, for Dr.
Bauerstein had been there that evening. This changed the face of the
whole affair, for there was now one cup missing. The servants noticed
nothing, since Annie, the housemaid, who took in the coffee, brought in
seven cups, not knowing that Mr. Inglethorp never drank it, whereas
Dorcas, who cleared them away the following morning, found six as
usualâ€”or strictly speaking she found five, the sixth being the one
found broken in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s room.

â€œI was confident that the missing cup was that of Mademoiselle Cynthia.
I had an additional reason for that belief in the fact that all the
cups found contained sugar, which Mademoiselle Cynthia never took in
her coffee. My attention was attracted by the story of Annie about some
â€˜saltâ€™ on the tray of cocoa which she took every night to Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s room. I accordingly secured a sample of that cocoa, and
sent it to be analysed.â€�

â€œBut that had already been done by Dr. Bauerstein,â€� said Lawrence
quickly.

â€œNot exactly. The analyst was asked by him to report whether strychnine
was, or was not, present. He did not have it tested, as I did, for a
narcotic.â€�

â€œFor a narcotic?â€�

â€œYes. Here is the analystâ€™s report. Mrs. Cavendish administered a safe,
but effectual, narcotic to both Mrs. Inglethorp and Mademoiselle
Cynthia. And it is possible that she had a _mauvais quart dâ€™heure_ in
consequence! Imagine her feelings when her mother-in-law is suddenly
taken ill and dies, and immediately after she hears the word â€˜Poisonâ€™!
She has believed that the sleeping draught she administered was
perfectly harmless, but there is no doubt that for one terrible moment
she must have feared that Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s death lay at her door. She
is seized with panic, and under its influence she hurries downstairs,
and quickly drops the coffee-cup and saucer used by Mademoiselle
Cynthia into a large brass vase, where it is discovered later by
Monsieur Lawrence. The remains of the cocoa she dare not touch. Too
many eyes are upon her. Guess at her relief when strychnine is
mentioned, and she discovers that after all the tragedy is not her
doing.

â€œWe are now able to account for the symptoms of strychnine poisoning
being so long in making their appearance. A narcotic taken with
strychnine will delay the action of the poison for some hours.â€�

Poirot paused. Mary looked up at him, the colour slowly rising in her
face.

â€œAll you have said is quite true, Monsieur Poirot. It was the most
awful hour of my life. I shall never forget it. But you are wonderful.
I understand nowâ€”â€”â€�

â€œWhat I meant when I told you that you could safely confess to Papa
Poirot, eh? But you would not trust me.â€�

â€œI see everything now,â€� said Lawrence. â€œThe drugged cocoa, taken on top
of the poisoned coffee, amply accounts for the delay.â€�

â€œExactly. But was the coffee poisoned, or was it not? We come to a
little difficulty here, since Mrs. Inglethorp never drank it.â€�

â€œWhat?â€� The cry of surprise was universal.

â€œNo. You will remember my speaking of a stain on the carpet in Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s room? There were some peculiar points about that stain. It
was still damp, it exhaled a strong odour of coffee, and imbedded in
the nap of the carpet I found some little splinters of china. What had
happened was plain to me, for not two minutes before I had placed my
little case on the table near the window, and the table, tilting up,
had deposited it upon the floor on precisely the identical spot. In
exactly the same way, Mrs. Inglethorp had laid down her cup of coffee
on reaching her room the night before, and the treacherous table had
played her the same trick.

â€œWhat happened next is mere guess work on my part, but I should say
that Mrs. Inglethorp picked up the broken cup and placed it on the
table by the bed. Feeling in need of a stimulant of some kind, she
heated up her cocoa, and drank it off then and there. Now we are faced
with a new problem. We know the cocoa contained no strychnine. The
coffee was never drunk. Yet the strychnine must have been administered
between seven and nine oâ€™clock that evening. What third medium was
thereâ€”a medium so suitable for disguising the taste of strychnine that
it is extraordinary no one has thought of it?â€� Poirot looked round the
room, and then answered himself impressively. â€œHer medicine!â€�

â€œDo you mean that the murderer introduced the strychnine into her
tonic?â€� I cried.

â€œThere was no need to introduce it. It was already thereâ€”in the
mixture. The strychnine that killed Mrs. Inglethorp was the identical
strychnine prescribed by Dr. Wilkins. To make that clear to you, I will
read you an extract from a book on dispensing which I found in the
Dispensary of the Red Cross Hospital at Tadminster:

â€œâ€˜The following prescription has become famous in text books:


          Strychninae Sulph. . . . . . 1 gr.

          Potass Bromide . . . . . . . 3vi

          Aqua ad. . . . . . . . . . . . . 3viii

          Fiat Mistura


_This solution deposits in a few hours the greater part of the
strychnine salt as an insoluble bromide in transparent crystals. A lady
in England lost her life by taking a similar mixture: the precipitated
strychnine collected at the bottom, and in taking the last dose she
swallowed nearly all of it!_

â€œNow there was, of course, no bromide in Dr. Wilkinsâ€™ prescription, but
you will remember that I mentioned an empty box of bromide powders. One
or two of those powders introduced into the full bottle of medicine
would effectually precipitate the strychnine, as the book describes,
and cause it to be taken in the last dose. You will learn later that
the person who usually poured out Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s medicine was always
extremely careful not to shake the bottle, but to leave the sediment at
the bottom of it undisturbed.

â€œThroughout the case, there have been evidences that the tragedy was
intended to take place on Monday evening. On that day, Mrs.
Inglethorpâ€™s bell wire was neatly cut, and on Monday evening
Mademoiselle Cynthia was spending the night with friends, so that Mrs.
Inglethorp would have been quite alone in the right wing, completely
shut off from help of any kind, and would have died, in all
probability, before medical aid could have been summoned. But in her
hurry to be in time for the village entertainment Mrs. Inglethorp
forgot to take her medicine, and the next day she lunched away from
home, so that the lastâ€”and fatalâ€”dose was actually taken twenty-four
hours later than had been anticipated by the murderer; and it is owing
to that delay that the final proofâ€”the last link of the chainâ€”is now in
my hands.â€�

Amid breathless excitement, he held out three thin strips of paper.

â€œA letter in the murdererâ€™s own hand-writing, _mes amis!_ Had it been a
little clearer in its terms, it is possible that Mrs. Inglethorp,
warned in time, would have escaped. As it was, she realized her danger,
but not the manner of it.â€�

In the deathly silence, Poirot pieced together the slips of paper and,
clearing his throat, read:

Dearest Evelyn:

    â€˜You will be anxious at hearing nothing. It is all rightâ€”only it
    will be to-night instead of last night. You understand. Thereâ€™s a
    good time coming once the old woman is dead and out of the way. No
    one can possibly bring home the crime to me. That idea of yours
    about the bromides was a stroke of genius! But we must be very
    circumspect. A false stepâ€”â€”â€™


â€œHere, my friends, the letter breaks off. Doubtless the writer was
interrupted; but there can be no question as to his identity. We all
know this hand-writing andâ€”â€”â€�

A howl that was almost a scream broke the silence.

â€œYou devil! How did you get it?â€�

A chair was overturned. Poirot skipped nimbly aside. A quick movement
on his part, and his assailant fell with a crash.

â€œ_Messieurs, mesdames_,â€� said Poirot, with a flourish, â€œlet me
introduce you to the murderer, Mr. Alfred Inglethorp!â€�






CHAPTER XIII. POIROT EXPLAINS

â€œPoirot, you old villain,â€� I said, â€œIâ€™ve half a mind to strangle you!
What do you mean by deceiving me as you have done?â€�

We were sitting in the library. Several hectic days lay behind us. In
the room below, John and Mary were together once more, while Alfred
Inglethorp and Miss Howard were in custody. Now at last, I had Poirot
to myself, and could relieve my still burning curiosity.

Poirot did not answer me for a moment, but at last he said:

â€œI did not deceive you, _mon ami_. At most, I permitted you to deceive
yourself.â€�

â€œYes, but why?â€�

â€œWell, it is difficult to explain. You see, my friend, you have a
nature so honest, and a countenance so transparent, thatâ€”_enfin_, to
conceal your feelings is impossible! If I had told you my ideas, the
very first time you saw Mr. Alfred Inglethorp that astute gentleman
would haveâ€”in your so expressive idiomâ€”â€˜smelt a ratâ€™! And then,
_bonjour_ to our chances of catching him!â€�

â€œI think that I have more diplomacy than you give me credit for.â€�

â€œMy friend,â€� besought Poirot, â€œI implore you, do not enrage yourself!
Your help has been of the most invaluable. It is but the extremely
beautiful nature that you have, which made me pause.â€�

â€œWell,â€� I grumbled, a little mollified. â€œI still think you might have
given me a hint.â€�

â€œBut I did, my friend. Several hints. You would not take them. Think
now, did I ever say to you that I believed John Cavendish guilty? Did I
not, on the contrary, tell you that he would almost certainly be
acquitted?â€�

â€œYes, butâ€”â€”â€�

â€œAnd did I not immediately afterwards speak of the difficulty of
bringing the murderer to justice? Was it not plain to you that I was
speaking of two entirely different persons?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I said, â€œit was not plain to me!â€�

â€œThen again,â€� continued Poirot, â€œat the beginning, did I not repeat to
you several times that I didnâ€™t want Mr. Inglethorp arrested _now_?
That should have conveyed something to you.â€�

â€œDo you mean to say you suspected him as long ago as that?â€�

â€œYes. To begin with, whoever else might benefit by Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
death, her husband would benefit the most. There was no getting away
from that. When I went up to Styles with you that first day, I had no
idea as to how the crime had been committed, but from what I knew of
Mr. Inglethorp I fancied that it would be very hard to find anything to
connect him with it. When I arrived at the chÃ¢teau, I realized at once
that it was Mrs. Inglethorp who had burnt the will; and there, by the
way, you cannot complain, my friend, for I tried my best to force on
you the significance of that bedroom fire in midsummer.â€�

â€œYes, yes,â€� I said impatiently. â€œGo on.â€�

â€œWell, my friend, as I say, my views as to Mr. Inglethorpâ€™s guilt were
very much shaken. There was, in fact, so much evidence against him that
I was inclined to believe that he had not done it.â€�

â€œWhen did you change your mind?â€�

â€œWhen I found that the more efforts I made to clear him, the more
efforts he made to get himself arrested. Then, when I discovered that
Inglethorp had nothing to do with Mrs. Raikes and that in fact it was
John Cavendish who was interested in that quarter, I was quite sure.â€�

â€œBut why?â€�

â€œSimply this. If it had been Inglethorp who was carrying on an intrigue
with Mrs. Raikes, his silence was perfectly comprehensible. But, when I
discovered that it was known all over the village that it was John who
was attracted by the farmerâ€™s pretty wife, his silence bore quite a
different interpretation. It was nonsense to pretend that he was afraid
of the scandal, as no possible scandal could attach to him. This
attitude of his gave me furiously to think, and I was slowly forced to
the conclusion that Alfred Inglethorp wanted to be arrested. _Eh bien!_
from that moment, I was equally determined that he should not be
arrested.â€�

â€œWait a minute. I donâ€™t see why he wished to be arrested?â€�

â€œBecause, _mon ami_, it is the law of your country that a man once
acquitted can never be tried again for the same offence. Aha! but it
was cleverâ€”his idea! Assuredly, he is a man of method. See here, he
knew that in his position he was bound to be suspected, so he conceived
the exceedingly clever idea of preparing a lot of manufactured evidence
against himself. He wished to be arrested. He would then produce his
irreproachable alibiâ€”and, hey presto, he was safe for life!â€�

â€œBut I still donâ€™t see how he managed to prove his alibi, and yet go to
the chemistâ€™s shop?â€�

Poirot stared at me in surprise.

â€œIs it possible? My poor friend! You have not yet realized that it was
Miss Howard who went to the chemistâ€™s shop?â€�

â€œMiss Howard?â€�

â€œBut, certainly. Who else? It was most easy for her. She is of a good
height, her voice is deep and manly; moreover, remember, she and
Inglethorp are cousins, and there is a distinct resemblance between
them, especially in their gait and bearing. It was simplicity itself.
They are a clever pair!â€�

â€œI am still a little fogged as to how exactly the bromide business was
done,â€� I remarked.

â€œ_Bon!_ I will reconstruct for you as far as possible. I am inclined to
think that Miss Howard was the master mind in that affair. You remember
her once mentioning that her father was a doctor? Possibly she
dispensed his medicines for him, or she may have taken the idea from
one of the many books lying about when Mademoiselle Cynthia was
studying for her exam. Anyway, she was familiar with the fact that the
addition of a bromide to a mixture containing strychnine would cause
the precipitation of the latter. Probably the idea came to her quite
suddenly. Mrs. Inglethorp had a box of bromide powders, which she
occasionally took at night. What could be easier than quietly to
dissolve one or more of those powders in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s large sized
bottle of medicine when it came from Cootâ€™s? The risk is practically
nil. The tragedy will not take place until nearly a fortnight later. If
anyone has seen either of them touching the medicine, they will have
forgotten it by that time. Miss Howard will have engineered her
quarrel, and departed from the house. The lapse of time, and her
absence, will defeat all suspicion. Yes, it was a clever idea! If they
had left it alone, it is possible the crime might never have been
brought home to them. But they were not satisfied. They tried to be too
cleverâ€”and that was their undoing.â€�

Poirot puffed at his tiny cigarette, his eyes fixed on the ceiling.

â€œThey arranged a plan to throw suspicion on John Cavendish, by buying
strychnine at the village chemistâ€™s, and signing the register in his
hand-writing.

â€œOn Monday Mrs. Inglethorp will take the last dose of her medicine. On
Monday, therefore, at six oâ€™clock, Alfred Inglethorp arranges to be
seen by a number of people at a spot far removed from the village. Miss
Howard has previously made up a cock and bull story about him and Mrs.
Raikes to account for his holding his tongue afterwards. At six
oâ€™clock, Miss Howard, disguised as Alfred Inglethorp, enters the
chemistâ€™s shop, with her story about a dog, obtains the strychnine, and
writes the name of Alfred Inglethorp in Johnâ€™s handwriting, which she
had previously studied carefully.

â€œBut, as it will never do if John, too, can prove an alibi, she writes
him an anonymous noteâ€”still copying his hand-writingâ€”which takes him to
a remote spot where it is exceedingly unlikely that anyone will see
him.

â€œSo far, all goes well. Miss Howard goes back to Middlingham. Alfred
Inglethorp returns to Styles. There is nothing that can compromise him
in any way, since it is Miss Howard who has the strychnine, which,
after all, is only wanted as a blind to throw suspicion on John
Cavendish.

â€œBut now a hitch occurs. Mrs. Inglethorp does not take her medicine
that night. The broken bell, Cynthiaâ€™s absenceâ€”arranged by Inglethorp
through his wifeâ€”all these are wasted. And thenâ€”he makes his slip.

â€œMrs. Inglethorp is out, and he sits down to write to his accomplice,
who, he fears, may be in a panic at the non-success of their plan. It
is probable that Mrs. Inglethorp returned earlier than he expected.
Caught in the act, and somewhat flurried he hastily shuts and locks his
desk. He fears that if he remains in the room he may have to open it
again, and that Mrs. Inglethorp might catch sight of the letter before
he could snatch it up. So he goes out and walks in the woods, little
dreaming that Mrs. Inglethorp will open his desk, and discover the
incriminating document.

â€œBut this, as we know, is what happened. Mrs. Inglethorp reads it, and
becomes aware of the perfidy of her husband and Evelyn Howard, though,
unfortunately, the sentence about the bromides conveys no warning to
her mind. She knows that she is in dangerâ€”but is ignorant of where the
danger lies. She decides to say nothing to her husband, but sits down
and writes to her solicitor, asking him to come on the morrow, and she
also determines to destroy immediately the will which she has just
made. She keeps the fatal letter.â€�

â€œIt was to discover that letter, then, that her husband forced the lock
of the despatch-case?â€�

â€œYes, and from the enormous risk he ran we can see how fully he
realized its importance. That letter excepted, there was absolutely
nothing to connect him with the crime.â€�

â€œThereâ€™s only one thing I canâ€™t make out, why didnâ€™t he destroy it at
once when he got hold of it?â€�

â€œBecause he did not dare take the biggest risk of allâ€”that of keeping
it on his own person.â€�

â€œI donâ€™t understand.â€�

â€œLook at it from his point of view. I have discovered that there were
only five short minutes in which he could have taken itâ€”the five
minutes immediately before our own arrival on the scene, for before
that time Annie was brushing the stairs, and would have seen anyone who
passed going to the right wing. Figure to yourself the scene! He enters
the room, unlocking the door by means of one of the other doorkeysâ€”they
were all much alike. He hurries to the despatch-caseâ€”it is locked, and
the keys are nowhere to be seen. That is a terrible blow to him, for it
means that his presence in the room cannot be concealed as he had
hoped. But he sees clearly that everything must be risked for the sake
of that damning piece of evidence. Quickly, he forces the lock with a
penknife, and turns over the papers until he finds what he is looking
for.

â€œBut now a fresh dilemma arises: he dare not keep that piece of paper
on him. He may be seen leaving the roomâ€”he may be searched. If the
paper is found on him, it is certain doom. Probably, at this minute,
too, he hears the sounds below of Mr. Wells and John leaving the
boudoir. He must act quickly. Where can he hide this terrible slip of
paper? The contents of the waste-paper-basket are kept and in any case,
are sure to be examined. There are no means of destroying it; and he
dare not keep it. He looks round, and he seesâ€”what do you think, _mon
ami?_â€�

I shook my head.

â€œIn a moment, he has torn the letter into long thin strips, and rolling
them up into spills he thrusts them hurriedly in amongst the other
spills in the vase on the mantle-piece.â€�

I uttered an exclamation.

â€œNo one would think of looking there,â€� Poirot continued. â€œAnd he will
be able, at his leisure, to come back and destroy this solitary piece
of evidence against him.â€�

â€œThen, all the time, it was in the spill vase in Mrs. Inglethorpâ€™s
bedroom, under our very noses?â€� I cried.

Poirot nodded.

â€œYes, my friend. That is where I discovered my â€˜last link,â€™ and I owe
that very fortunate discovery to you.â€�

â€œTo me?â€�

â€œYes. Do you remember telling me that my hand shook as I was
straightening the ornaments on the mantelpiece?â€�

â€œYes, but I donâ€™t seeâ€”â€”â€�

â€œNo, but I saw. Do you know, my friend, I remembered that earlier in
the morning, when we had been there together, I had straightened all
the objects on the mantelpiece. And, if they were already straightened,
there would be no need to straighten them again, unless, in the
meantime, someone else had touched them.â€�

â€œDear me,â€� I murmured, â€œso that is the explanation of your
extraordinary behaviour. You rushed down to Styles, and found it still
there?â€�

â€œYes, and it was a race for time.â€�

â€œBut I still canâ€™t understand why Inglethorp was such a fool as to
leave it there when he had plenty of opportunity to destroy it.â€�

â€œAh, but he had no opportunity. _I_ saw to that.â€�

â€œYou?â€�

â€œYes. Do you remember reproving me for taking the household into my
confidence on the subject?â€�

â€œYes.â€�

â€œWell, my friend, I saw there was just one chance. I was not sure then
if Inglethorp was the criminal or not, but if he was I reasoned that he
would not have the paper on him, but would have hidden it somewhere,
and by enlisting the sympathy of the household I could effectually
prevent his destroying it. He was already under suspicion, and by
making the matter public I secured the services of about ten amateur
detectives, who would be watching him unceasingly, and being himself
aware of their watchfulness he would not dare seek further to destroy
the document. He was therefore forced to depart from the house, leaving
it in the spill vase.â€�

â€œBut surely Miss Howard had ample opportunities of aiding him.â€�

â€œYes, but Miss Howard did not know of the paperâ€™s existence. In
accordance with their prearranged plan, she never spoke to Alfred
Inglethorp. They were supposed to be deadly enemies, and until John
Cavendish was safely convicted they neither of them dared risk a
meeting. Of course I had a watch kept on Mr. Inglethorp, hoping that
sooner or later he would lead me to the hiding-place. But he was too
clever to take any chances. The paper was safe where it was; since no
one had thought of looking there in the first week, it was not likely
they would do so afterwards. But for your lucky remark, we might never
have been able to bring him to justice.â€�

â€œI understand that now; but when did you first begin to suspect Miss
Howard?â€�

â€œWhen I discovered that she had told a lie at the inquest about the
letter she had received from Mrs. Inglethorp.â€�

â€œWhy, what was there to lie about?â€�

â€œYou saw that letter? Do you recall its general appearance?â€�

â€œYesâ€”more or less.â€�

â€œYou will recollect, then, that Mrs. Inglethorp wrote a very
distinctive hand, and left large clear spaces between her words. But if
you look at the date at the top of the letter you will notice that
â€˜July 17thâ€™ is quite different in this respect. Do you see what I
mean?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I confessed, â€œI donâ€™t.â€�

â€œYou do not see that that letter was not written on the 17th, but on
the 7thâ€”the day after Miss Howardâ€™s departure? The â€˜1â€™ was written in
before the â€˜7â€™ to turn it into the â€˜17thâ€™.â€�

â€œBut why?â€�

â€œThat is exactly what I asked myself. Why does Miss Howard suppress the
letter written on the 17th, and produce this faked one instead? Because
she did not wish to show the letter of the 17th. Why, again? And at
once a suspicion dawned in my mind. You will remember my saying that it
was wise to beware of people who were not telling you the truth.â€�

â€œAnd yet,â€� I cried indignantly, â€œafter that, you gave me two reasons
why Miss Howard could not have committed the crime!â€�

â€œAnd very good reasons too,â€� replied Poirot. â€œFor a long time they were
a stumbling-block to me until I remembered a very significant fact:
that she and Alfred Inglethorp were cousins. She could not have
committed the crime single-handed, but the reasons against that did not
debar her from being an accomplice. And, then, there was that rather
over-vehement hatred of hers! It concealed a very opposite emotion.
There was, undoubtedly, a tie of passion between them long before he
came to Styles. They had already arranged their infamous plotâ€”that he
should marry this rich, but rather foolish old lady, induce her to make
a will leaving her money to him, and then gain their ends by a very
cleverly conceived crime. If all had gone as they planned, they would
probably have left England, and lived together on their poor victimâ€™s
money.

â€œThey are a very astute and unscrupulous pair. While suspicion was to
be directed against him, she would be making quiet preparations for a
very different _dÃ©nouement_. She arrives from Middlingham with all the
compromising items in her possession. No suspicion attaches to her. No
notice is paid to her coming and going in the house. She hides the
strychnine and glasses in Johnâ€™s room. She puts the beard in the attic.
She will see to it that sooner or later they are duly discovered.â€�

â€œI donâ€™t quite see why they tried to fix the blame on John,â€� I
remarked. â€œIt would have been much easier for them to bring the crime
home to Lawrence.â€�

â€œYes, but that was mere chance. All the evidence against him arose out
of pure accident. It must, in fact, have been distinctly annoying to
the pair of schemers.â€�

â€œHis manner was unfortunate,â€� I observed thoughtfully.

â€œYes. You realize, of course, what was at the back of that?â€�

â€œNo.â€�

â€œYou did not understand that he believed Mademoiselle Cynthia guilty of
the crime?â€�

â€œNo,â€� I exclaimed, astonished. â€œImpossible!â€�

â€œNot at all. I myself nearly had the same idea. It was in my mind when
I asked Mr. Wells that first question about the will. Then there were
the bromide powders which she had made up, and her clever male
impersonations, as Dorcas recounted them to us. There was really more
evidence against her than anyone else.â€�

â€œYou are joking, Poirot!â€�

â€œNo. Shall I tell you what made Monsieur Lawrence turn so pale when he
first entered his motherâ€™s room on the fatal night? It was because,
whilst his mother lay there, obviously poisoned, he saw, over your
shoulder, that the door into Mademoiselle Cynthiaâ€™s room was unbolted.â€�

â€œBut he declared that he saw it bolted!â€� I cried.

â€œExactly,â€� said Poirot dryly. â€œAnd that was just what confirmed my
suspicion that it was not. He was shielding Mademoiselle Cynthia.â€�

â€œBut why should he shield her?â€�

â€œBecause he is in love with her.â€�

I laughed.

â€œThere, Poirot, you are quite wrong! I happen to know for a fact that,
far from being in love with her, he positively dislikes her.â€�

â€œWho told you that, _mon ami?_â€�

â€œCynthia herself.â€�

â€œ_La pauvre petite!_ And she was concerned?â€�

â€œShe said that she did not mind at all.â€�

â€œThen she certainly did mind very much,â€� remarked Poirot. â€œThey are
like thatâ€”_les femmes!_â€�

â€œWhat you say about Lawrence is a great surprise to me,â€� I said.

â€œBut why? It was most obvious. Did not Monsieur Lawrence make the sour
face every time Mademoiselle Cynthia spoke and laughed with his
brother? He had taken it into his long head that Mademoiselle Cynthia
was in love with Monsieur John. When he entered his motherâ€™s room, and
saw her obviously poisoned, he jumped to the conclusion that
Mademoiselle Cynthia knew something about the matter. He was nearly
driven desperate. First he crushed the coffee-cup to powder under his
feet, remembering that _she_ had gone up with his mother the night
before, and he determined that there should be no chance of testing its
contents. Thenceforward, he strenuously, and quite uselessly, upheld
the theory of â€˜Death from natural causesâ€™.â€�

â€œAnd what about the â€˜extra coffee-cupâ€™?â€�

â€œI was fairly certain that it was Mrs. Cavendish who had hidden it, but
I had to make sure. Monsieur Lawrence did not know at all what I meant;
but, on reflection, he came to the conclusion that if he could find an
extra coffee-cup anywhere his lady love would be cleared of suspicion.
And he was perfectly right.â€�

â€œOne thing more. What did Mrs. Inglethorp mean by her dying words?â€�

â€œThey were, of course, an accusation against her husband.â€�

â€œDear me, Poirot,â€� I said with a sigh, â€œI think you have explained
everything. I am glad it has all ended so happily. Even John and his
wife are reconciled.â€�

â€œThanks to me.â€�

â€œHow do you meanâ€”thanks to you?â€�

â€œMy dear friend, do you not realize that it was simply and solely the
trial which has brought them together again? That John Cavendish still
loved his wife, I was convinced. Also, that she was equally in love
with him. But they had drifted very far apart. It all arose from a
misunderstanding. She married him without love. He knew it. He is a
sensitive man in his way, he would not force himself upon her if she
did not want him. And, as he withdrew, her love awoke. But they are
both unusually proud, and their pride held them inexorably apart. He
drifted into an entanglement with Mrs. Raikes, and she deliberately
cultivated the friendship of Dr. Bauerstein. Do you remember the day of
John Cavendishâ€™s arrest, when you found me deliberating over a big
decision?â€�

â€œYes, I quite understood your distress.â€�

â€œPardon me, _mon ami_, but you did not understand it in the least. I
was trying to decide whether or not I would clear John Cavendish at
once. I could have cleared himâ€”though it might have meant a failure to
convict the real criminals. They were entirely in the dark as to my
real attitude up to the very last momentâ€”which partly accounts for my
success.â€�

â€œDo you mean that you could have saved John Cavendish from being
brought to trial?â€�

â€œYes, my friend. But I eventually decided in favour of â€˜a womanâ€™s
happinessâ€™. Nothing but the great danger through which they have passed
could have brought these two proud souls together again.â€�

I looked at Poirot in silent amazement. The colossal cheek of the
little man! Who on earth but Poirot would have thought of a trial for
murder as a restorer of conjugal happiness!

â€œI perceive your thoughts, _mon ami_,â€� said Poirot, smiling at me. â€œNo
one but Hercule Poirot would have attempted such a thing! And you are
wrong in condemning it. The happiness of one man and one woman is the
greatest thing in all the world.â€�

His words took me back to earlier events. I remembered Mary as she lay
white and exhausted on the sofa, listening, listening. There had come
the sound of the bell below. She had started up. Poirot had opened the
door, and meeting her agonized eyes had nodded gently. â€œYes, madame,â€�
he said. â€œI have brought him back to you.â€� He had stood aside, and as I
went out I had seen the look in Maryâ€™s eyes, as John Cavendish had
caught his wife in his arms.

â€œPerhaps you are right, Poirot,â€� I said gently. â€œYes, it is the
greatest thing in the world.â€�

Suddenly, there was a tap at the door, and Cynthia peeped in.

â€œIâ€”I onlyâ€”â€”â€�

â€œCome in,â€� I said, springing up.

She came in, but did not sit down.

â€œIâ€”only wanted to tell you somethingâ€”â€”â€�

â€œYes?â€�

Cynthia fidgeted with a little tassel for some moments, then, suddenly
exclaiming: â€œYou dears!â€� kissed first me and then Poirot, and rushed
out of the room again.

â€œWhat on earth does this mean?â€� I asked, surprised.

It was very nice to be kissed by Cynthia, but the publicity of the
salute rather impaired the pleasure.

â€œIt means that she has discovered Monsieur Lawrence does not dislike
her as much as she thought,â€� replied Poirot philosophically.

â€œButâ€”â€”â€�

â€œHere he is.â€�

Lawrence at that moment passed the door.

â€œEh! Monsieur Lawrence,â€� called Poirot. â€œWe must congratulate you, is
it not so?â€�

Lawrence blushed, and then smiled awkwardly. A man in love is a sorry
spectacle. Now Cynthia had looked charming.

I sighed.

â€œWhat is it, _mon ami?_â€�

â€œNothing,â€� I said sadly. â€œThey are two delightful women!â€�

â€œAnd neither of them is for you?â€� finished Poirot. â€œNever mind. Console
yourself, my friend. We may hunt together again, who knows? And thenâ€”â€”â€�



THE END


End of Project Gutenberg's The Mysterious Affair at Styles, by Agatha Christie

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MYSTERIOUS AFFAIR AT STYLES ***

***** This file should be named 863-0.txt or 863-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/8/6/863/

Produced by Charles Keller

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.










